Surah 73:1,  O thou folded in garments!,Ya wyoe Annabi na' a ede lakpe ba nan.
Surah 73:2 ,  Stand (to prayer) by night but not all night-,A' nan kin dan jin jin ibadao be yeshi kpaata sai dai lokaci degi ga wo'a fa'o.
Surah 73:3 ,   Half of it- or a little less,A gan-fi yeshi jin sallah kpaata. Ko ma u la'u gba gan fi yeshi de'gi.
Surah 73:4  ,   Or a little more; and recite the Qur´an in slow measured rhythmic tones.,koma wo fe'o jin sallah'o dan lokaci nan a be ta eti gan-fi yeshio nan. Wo mao feo gba Alkur'anu gbi gba nan yi wangi nan.
Surah 73:5 ,   Soon shall We send down to thee a weighty Message.,Akika yi (Soko)'a la kara yan  egan nan lukpin sarauyin nan ta wyoe.(kara adini).
Surah 73:6   ,    Truly the rising by night is most potent for governing (the soul) and most suitable for (framing) the Word (of Prayer and Praise).,Akika ekin nan dan jin jin ibadao be yeshi'i Wun'e ya za yangban cin ta nan wancin. Uma jin dai dai gan eba eza nan eza'aba be Tsoci'u yin nae.
Surah 73:7    , True there is for thee by day prolonged occupation with ordinary duties:,Akika wo yi be etun nanzhi'i dokun nan (eti eko lili yan Soko'); be yigidi'i.
Surah 73:8  ,   But keep in remembrance the name of thy Lord and devote thyself to Him whole-heartedly.,Wyo mao dokun be yetun yan Tsoci'o yin Wyo mao la tacin'o tu baenio. Dan jin jin ibadao ya Soko.
Surah 73:9 ,       (He is) Lord of the East and the West: there is no god but He: take Him therefore for (thy) Disposer of Affairs.,Tsoci nan wun mulki eyi lazhin nan to eyi lozun nan akika a de za ndoci ko yandoci nan kun'a cin a jin bauta ya na'a sai dai Soko. Ebo acin'o a gwa sun Soko gban yin.
Surah 73:10 ,     And have patience with what they say and leave them with noble (dignity).,Wyo mao la hakuri'o jin be egan (banza) nanzhie gan nan wyo mao kpeo ya be'ayin kpikpeya nan yi wangi nan. (Ga jin'a zwalunci ma Wyo mao ga gia toko ma).
Surah 73:11  ,   And leave Me (alone to deal with) those in possession of the good things of life who (yet) deny the Truth; and bear with them for a little while.,(Annabi) a Mi (Soko) ya ganni be za nanzhi'e yi alamari adini ganmanan nan ebo nan a yi be ni'ima izhe' nan wo mao pata'o ya'a de'gi (wo'a le yan nan Soko ajin bea yin nan ye).
Surah 73:12  , With Us are Fetters (to bind them) and a Fire (to burn them),Akika  Yia shiri yan kuruzhi (nan lukpin sarauyin nan) jin ka'a kiyamao to enan nan tan sarauyin nan.
Surah 73:13   , And a Food that chokes and a Penalty Grievous.,To yangici dede nan'e yi gan (zakumu nan) ganna be azaba nan tan sarauyin nan.
Surah 73:13   , And a Food that chokes and a Penalty Grievous.,To yangici dede nan'e yi gan (zakumu nan) ganna be azaba nan tan sarauyin nan.
Surah 73:14  ,     One Day the earth and the mountains will be in violent commotion. And the mountains will be as a heap of sand poured out and flowing down.,(Efo kiyama) Efo u yio nan kin to patizhi a' fe du dudu yan iyaka nan. Patizhi ci ga zhe ke jikanna nan'a ku ye kan zhi-zhi nan. (wun'a de kagbo ndondo bea).
Surah 73:15   ,       We have sent to you (O men!) a messenger to be a witness concerning you even as We sent a messenger to Pharaoh.,Akika Yia Tuci tun fi ye Ebo u la'u fe eri'u ya etun nanzhi ye'lo nan kendoe Yi tun Tuci fi Fir'auna na.
Surah 73:16   ,  But Pharaoh disobeyed the messenger; so We seized him with a heavy Punishment.,Fir'auna cia le bawu yan Tuci (Soko) ba Yi ci'u wan win'wan nan yi kpantsuku nan.
Surah 73:17,       Then how shall ye if ye deny (Allah) guard yourselves against a Day that will make children hoary-headed-,Ke ye'a be jin jin be kafirinci nan ye' jin be Sokoe nan' efo kiyama'e nan'o Efo wuncin nan (ebo ekpin lu'u bo) wun'e la dzakangizhi a yin tin yin bokun' nan'o
Surah 73:18 ,    Whereon the sky will be cleft asunder His Promise needs must be accomplished.,Fo wuncin sanma ga'a ban-fi akika nan nan alkawali uyio nan ga' jin faruwa nan.
Surah 73:18 ,    Whereon the sky will be cleft asunder His Promise needs must be accomplished.,Fo wuncin sanma ga'a ban-fi akika nan nan alkawali uyio nan ga' jin faruwa nan.
Surah 73:19 ,       Verily this is an Admonition: therefore whoso will let him take a (straight) path to his Lord!,Akika nan nan tukpa pa tsa' U yio za nan u ga be ba nan U la gwa'u sun etun guru zhi u fe'u lo har da fo nan wun'a be be tsun Tsoci'u nan.
Surah 73:20     ,                                                                        Thy Lord doth know that thou standest forth (to prayer) nigh two-thirds of the night or half the night or a third of the night and so doth a party of those with thee. But Allah doth appoint night and day in due measure He knoweth that ye are unable to keep count thereof. So He hath turned to you (in mercy): read ye therefore of the Qur´an as much as may be easy for you. He knoweth that there may be (some) among you in ill-health; others travelling through the land seeking of Allah´s bounty; yet others fighting in Allah´s Cause read ye therefore as much of the Qur´an as may be easy (for you); and establish regular Prayer and give regular Charity; and loan to Allah a Beautiful Loan. And whatever good ye send forth for your souls ye shall find it in Allah´s Presence- yea better and greater in Reward and seek ye the Grace of Allah: for Allah is Oft-Forgiving Most Merciful.,Akika Tsoci wyoe de kpikpe ke Wyoe nan kin jin ibada ke ekpa-lo yan kansan guba yan yeshii nan ka'ndoci ma kasan nini yan guta yan yeshi'i. Ganni be sashi za nan zhia imani jin be wo yin nan. Akika Soko ga wun iko eti ekpa-lo yan yeshi to igidi bo. Soko kpe ke ye de kagbo nan ye ga jin ibada yeshi'i kpata naa ebo acin'o wun'a sauki jin ya ye. Da gan gbani e' fe jin sallah yeshi to katun alkur'anu gwargwado kendoe u ga fan fie nan. Soko kpe ke aabe de za nanzhi'a wo maa miniebo nan (ebo acin'o a jin sallah yeshi wo'a) Ndocizhi ma'a fe jin kodagba za kpe eti kinbo a a fe wa arziki za dagan eba Soko ndocizhi ma a'fe jin jihadi dan kinbo ebo adini Soko'u la'u la'u tu. Ebo acin'o ejin Sallah yeshi be Alkur'anu gba'e gwargwado nan ga fan fie nan. Ye mae la salla farillazhie ku'egikini wangi ye mae fe wa zakka dukiya yezhi Ye mae fe la eyan wangi ye zhi Ye' la'e ma Soko (eti sadakao). Yandondo nan Ye ga la shidzo yan alhairi nan Ye'a be tsun'u eba Soko be egagba na wancin
