Surah 50:1,   Qaf: By the Glorious Qur´an (Thou art Allah´s Messenger).,QAF mi zhi kuti be alkuranuy nan yi cinwanci nan.
Surah 50:2   ,       But they wonder that there has come to them a Warner from among themselves. So the Unbelievers say: "This is a wonderful thing!,A'aa dea jin mamaki na za na ajin gangba.nan miniabo ufe beo nan kafirizhi ci gan; nan nan de eyan mamaki u yio.
Surah 50:3 ,     "What! When we die and become dust (shall we live again) That is a (sort of) return far (from our understanding).",Ngba Yi ga' tsu yicia zhe jikannan (a kezhea yi dan rayi be) Ezhe ke wuncin ma'akpe ya be gashiyae.
Surah 50:4  ,      We already know how much of them the earth takes away: With Us is a record guarding (the full account).,Akika Yi kpe yan nan kin yin'e gi ya miniabo nan Yima kezhe ye be Litafi nae tswa yandondo nan.
Surah 50:4   ,     We already know how much of them the earth takes away: With Us is a record guarding (the full account).,Akika Yi kpe yan nan kin yin'e gi ya miniabo nan Yima kezhe ye be Litafi nae tswa yandondo nan.
Surah 50:5  ,      But they deny the Truth when it comes to them: so they are in a confused state.,U jin'acin'a a dea gaskiya yi ganmanan kamina u be yaa nan amaafe fi mini alamarizhio nazhi yi be rikiciy na.
Surah 50:5    ,    But they deny the Truth when it comes to them: so they are in a confused state.,U jin'acin'a a dea gaskiya yi ganmanan kamina u be yaa nan amaafe fi mini alamarizhio nazhi yi be rikiciy na.
Surah 50:6,           Do they not look at the sky above them- How We have made it and adorned it and there are no flaws in it,Kashiy acin Sanma cin le ta fitia boa kendoe Yi tu'u tu naa Yi ciu panin na'a U ma san ban dondo boa naa
Surah 50:7   ,       And the earth- We have spread it out and set thereon mountains standing firm and produced therein every kind of beautiful growth (in pairs)-,To kin nan Yi ta cici naa Yicia patizhi ce ta'u Yi cia yangici sun-sunzhi iri ndondo la'a tin ya bo nanzhiy ma yi wangi nan.
Surah 50:7  ,        And the earth- We have spread it out and set thereon mountains standing firm and produced therein every kind of beautiful growth (in pairs)-,To kin nan Yi ta cici naa Yicia patizhi ce ta'u Yi cia yangici sun-sunzhi iri ndondo la'a tin ya bo nanzhiy ma yi wangi nan.
Surah 50:8  ,  To be observed and commemorated by every devotee turning (to Allah).,Ebo ula'a fe eyan yekpa be wa'aziy ya wuzhi ndondo nae zheban da ba Soko nan.
Surah 50:9       ,  And We send down from the sky rain charted with blessing and We produce therewith gardens and Grain for harvests;,Yima du ele albarka beyn dagan sanmao Yicia yangici lambuzhi laatin ya to yangici sun zhi nan zhie da ku (lati o)nan.
Surah 50:10 ,   And tall (and stately) palm-trees with shoots of fruit-stalks piled one over another;-,To dobinazhi nanzhi wunkpa nan a ma yi be egizhi nazhi ta'ti dozhio nan.
Surah 50:11       ,As sustenance for (Allah´s) Servants;- and We give (new) life therewith to land that is dead: Thus will be the Resurrection.,Ebo ula'ufe arziki u ya wuzhizhi Yi maa ezhi nan yi tsutsuci na dan rayi be u yin. Acinga ga ma dzun dzun tinya dagan kabari'a yio.
Surah 50:12    ,  Before them was denied (the Hereafter) by the People of Noah the Companions of the Rass the Thamud,Jamaa yan (Annabi) Nuhu zhi a (egan Soko) yi ganmanan shidzo be dzo to jama'a yan -- ga Rassizhi to Samuduzhi.
Surah 50:13  , The ´Ad Pharaoh the brethren of LutTo Aduzhi to Fir'auna to yegi yan Lutuzhi (atso a egan Soko yi ganmanan).
Surah 50:14,        The Companions of the Wood and the People of Tubba´; each one (of them) rejected the messengers and My warning was duly fulfilled (in them).,To jama'a yan Annabi shuaibuzhi to Tuba'uzhi kpata a Tucizhi yi ganmanan azaba cia jin tabbata ta eti a bo.
Surah 50:15   ,      Were We then weary with the first Creation that they should be in confused doubt about a new Creation,Kashi Yi yia gbakpan gba be jin jin yan za mafari zhiy A'a ade jin kelo kezhin jin dan yi ye jin yan alittazhio.
Surah 50:16      ,       It was We Who created man and We know what dark suggestions his soul makes to him: for We are nearer to him than (his) jugular vein.,Akika Yi gajin Alitta zawangio Yi ma kpe yan nanzhie je lo-zhin fi yangban'u bo nan Yi ma tso bau gan to edin nanzhi fi koro'u bo nan.
Surah 50:17,       Behold two (guardian angels) appointed to learn (his doings) learn (and noted them) one sitting on the right and one on the left.,(E pa) kamina (Malaika) guba (na'aka ya zandondo na) gun dozhi nini ashi gwaalo nini ma'ashi gwaapin'o aci gaa fedun nan.
Surah 50:17  ,     Behold two (guardian angels) appointed to learn (his doings) learn (and noted them) one sitting on the right and one on the left.,(E pa) kamina (Malaika) guba (na'aka ya zandondo na) gun dozhi nini ashi gwaalo nini ma'ashi gwaapin'o aci gaa fedun nan.
Surah 50:18 ,      Not a word does he utter but there is a sentinel by him ready (to note it).,Ade egan naa tin ya misun'u bo na'a sai de (Malaika) Rakibu to Atidu a zhi baubo fe kau.
Surah 50:18    ,   Not a word does he utter but there is a sentinel by him ready (to note it).,Ade egan naa tin ya misun'u bo na'a sai de (Malaika) Rakibu to Atidu a zhi baubo fe kau.
Surah 50:19  ,      And the stupor of death will bring Truth (before his eyes): "This was the thing which thou wast trying to escape!",Gancin pipe yan ajali cia be be gaskiyae wuncin ga yi yan nan wyo'e bici yaba ya nao.
Surah 50:20,     And the Trumpet shall be blown: that will be the Day whereof Warning (had been given).,Aciga efe be fi kafo fo wuncin ga yi efo alkawali o.
Surah 50:21,     And there will come forth every soul: with each will be an (angel) to drive and an (angel) to bear witness.,Rayi ndondo ma'abe be (foga) ganni be za nae pa'u nan be za nae jin 'ri nae.
Surah 50:22    ,       (It will be said:) "Thou wast heedless of this; now have We removed thy veil and sharp is thy sight this Day!",Akika eti alamari na nao wyo a fe dan mini eye yao yi ma ga yekan wyo zhi kpe ya ya wye bacin le wye yin nan wun'ayi nu nuci.
Surah 50:23  ,   And his Companion will say: "Here is (his Record) ready with me!",Malaika nae la'mi tu'u nan cia gan gan: Nan nan ga yi yan nan be be mi yin nao.
Surah 50:24,     (The sentence will be:) "Throw throw into Hell every contumacious Rejecter (of Allah)!-,Yea kafiri ndondo nan ga'a gbo tika nan ye'u ce gun enao.
Surah 50:25   ,"Who forbade what was good transgressed all bounds cast doubts and suspicions;,Za nae la alheri kan zazhi nan za nae gwo iyaka Soko gan nan. U mayi za nae jin kelo kezhin nan.Surah 50:26         "Who set up another god beside Allah: Throw him into a severe penalty."Za naa tsoci ndoci laapa Soko baci nan e ce'u da gun azabao nan yi tsun tsun nu na.
Surah 50:27    ,     His Companion will say: "Our Lord! I did not make him transgress but he was (himself) far astray.",Sheitan nan yi eyau nan cia gan gan: ya wyo Tsoci mi! u jin mi gbin wun'a re amma'de wuntso afe dan mini egbin nan'akpe ya nan.
Surah 50:28  ,     He will say: "Dispute not with each other in My Presence: I had already in advance sent you Warning.,U gan: E ga jin husuma yeboro Mi bop ma Mia gangba la'ashidzo ya ye eti azaba boa ni.
Surah 50:29,       "The Word changes not before Me and I do not the least injustice to My Servants.",Ezhe egan gba eba Mi boa Mi ma jin za nae jin wuzhi zwalunci na'a.
Surah 50:30 ,       One Day We will ask Hell "Art thou filled to the full" It will say "Are there any more (to come)",Efo nan Yi yia gan be jahannamae gan: Ngba wyo'a shea ni U cia gan gan: kashiy a yia de ke re na'a la be mi na
Surah 50:32  ,   (A voice will say:) "This is what was promised for you- for every one who turned (to Allah) in sincere repentance who kept (His Law),Acia gan'a gan: Nna ga yi yan nan e la jin ye alkawalinao (a mau jin shiri) ya zandondo nan gae dokun be zheke lo eba Soko nan u ma yi za nae tswa (kaida yan Soko nan).
Surah 50:33  ,    "Who feared (Allah) Most Gracious Unseen and brought a heart turned in devotion (to Him):,Za nae sundan Soko swiswoci nan U ma'azheban lo eba Soko be yangban yan ekpya dae nan.
Surah 50:34 ,   "Enter ye therein in Peace and Security; this is a Day of Eternal Life!",(A cia gan'a gan): E gan dan bo be aminciy fo' wuncin ga yi efo yan dawwamao. (efo na'a zwo be a nan).
Surah 50:35 ,    There will be for them therein all that they wish- and more besides in Our Presence.,Yan dondo nan a gae wa nan fi bo ya'a bibe ma kezhe dan bo eba Yi bo be.
Surah 50:36    ,          But how many generations before them did We destroy (for their sins)- stronger in power than they Then did they wander through the land: was there any place of escape (for them),Al'ummazhi danbo dokun nazhi shidzo nan Yi' ajin hallaka zawuncinzhi gboka gan'a aci be a fe za nazhie za fi ezhizhio cie wa gwagan za nan.
Surah 50:37  ,          Verily in this is a Message for any that has a heart and understanding or who gives ear and earnestly witnesses (the truth).,Akika mini wuncin'o sinsantu danbo ya zandondo nan ga de ankali nan Ucia tukpa shi ya (egan Soko) ganni be yangban nae gwo gan nae.
Surah 50:38     ,       We created the heavens and the earth and all between them in Six Days nor did any sense of weariness touch Us.,Akika Yi jin alitta sanmazhi to kin to yan nanzhi fi tsakaniabo nan danmini efo gutswan'ayin'o wahala ndondo ma de yi yia.
Surah 50:39Surah 50:39   ,        Bear then with patience all that they say and celebrate the praises of thy Lord before the rising of the sun and before (its) setting.A ankuri jin be egan nanzhi e gan nan wyo mao feo li Soko tsatsa yin be yebo jin'y ya Tsoci wye kafi igidi'u la'u tin'u ya nan be kafi igidi lo mi nan.
Surah 50:40  ,  And during part of the night (also) celebrate His praises and (so likewise) after the postures of adoration.,Mini yeshio ma fe li'u tsa tsa yin wyo mao feo liu zunma yan salla ndondo.
Surah 50:41   ,   And listen for the Day when the Caller will call out from a place quiet near-,Wyo mao feo shitukpa efo nan za nan kun zazhi yn yi nan U ga yia dagan bandoci nan tsoba na.
Surah 50:42,      The Day when they will hear a (mighty) Blast in (very) truth: that will be the Day of Resurrection.Efo nan alittazhia wo kabara yan gaskiya nan fo wuncin ga yi efo dzun-dzun tinya kabari bo.
Surah 50:43 ,    Verily it is We Who give Life and Death; and to Us is the Final Goal-,Akika Yi gae dan yan rayio Yi ga mae wu rayio eba yi ga ma alittazhi'a kezhe zhin'o.
Surah 50:44 ,       The Day when the Earth will be rent asunder from (men) hurrying out: that will be a gathering together- quite easy for Us.,Efo nan kin ga'la fi acia fe dzun tinya vayin nan wuncin gungun yekan u yio nan yi finfanci eba Yi bo nao.
Surah 50:45 ,           We know best what they say; and thou art not one to overawe them by force. So admonish with the Qur´an such as fear My Warning!,Yi ga de kpikpe gan eti yan nanzhi e gan nan bo wyo ma jin za nae jin'a kpaka na'a Fela Alkuranu jin wa'azi ya za nan gae sundan azaba Mi nan.Bear then with patience all that they say and celebrate the praises of thy Lord before the rising of the sun and before (its) setting.A ankuri jin be egan nanzhi e gan nan wyo mao feo li Soko tsatsa yin be yebo jin'y ya Tsoci wye kafi igidi'u la'u tin'u ya nan be kafi igidi lo mi nan.
