Surah 44:1, Ha-Mim.,HEU MIM.
Surah 44:2 ,By the Book that makes things clear;-,Sokoe zhi kuti be Alkuranuy Litafi naa tula nan.
Surah 44:3 ,      We sent it down during a Blessed Night: for We (ever) wish to warn (against Evil).,Akika Yi cin'u cin be dan mini yeshi yan albarkao. Akika Yi yia fe za nanzhie jin gangba nan.
Surah 44:4 ,   In the (Night) is made distinct every affair of wisdom,Miniubo gabo e kpe alamariko ndondo yeo.
Surah 44:5 ,    By command from Our Presence. For We (ever) send (revelations),Alamari uyio dagan eba Yibo akika Yi Yia fe za nanzhie tun Tucizhi tun nan.
Surah 44:6,      As Mercy from thy Lord: for He hears and knows (all things);,Yegun ma uyio dagan eba Tsoci wyo bo Etsu uyio nae wo gan nan Etsu nan yi be kpikpe nan.
Surah 44:7,       The Lord of the heavens and the earth and all between them if ye (but) have an assured faith.,Wun ga yi Etsu nae kpa sanmazhi to kin to yan nanzhi fi tsakaniabo nao wun'a yi eza gaskiyazhi ye yio nan.
Surah 44:8 ,        There is no god but He: It is He Who gives life and gives death- The Lord and Cherisher to you and your earliest ancestors.,Ade yandoci nan ajin bauta ya naa sai wun'y wun gae dan yan rayio wun ga mae wu rayio. Wun ga yi Tsoci ye yeo to yan yanmanci yezhi nanzhiy shidzo nao.
Surah 44:9,    Yet they play about in doubt.,Akika a dea fe dan mini kelo kezhin'o acie dzodzo.Surah 44:10     Then watch thou for the Day that the sky will bring forth a kind of smoke (or mist) plainly visibleFe tuye yan efo nan sanmaa fe'la enanwuzhi tinya nan enanwu naa tula nan.
Surah 44:11 ,   Enveloping the people: this will be a Penalty Grievous.,Uci ga' rukpe zawangi zhi nan nan ga yi efo azaba nan tan nao.
Surah 44:12 ,    (They will say:) "Our Lord! remove the Penalty from us for we do really believe!",Ya' wye Tsoci yi a azaba la ke ya bo ya yi akika yi ga afe Muminizhi.
Surah 44:13,      How shall the message be (effectual) for them seeing that an Messenger explaining things clearly has (already) come to them-,Biybo anfani yan sinsantu dan ya'ao (alkiyami bo) Ala'li ma Tucizhi be ya' izheo be bayanizhi ( a ma ya gaskiya'a).
Surah 44:14 ,    Yet they turn away from him and say: "Tutored (by others) a man possessed!"Ade'a zunma zhetau aci gan egi makanta uyio Uma ke yi ilanduci.
Surah 44:15   ,  We shall indeed remove the Penalty for a while (but) truly ye will revert (to your ways).,Akika Yia jin sauki azaba yaa degi akika ye yea kezhe da eko yan etun dedezhi be.
Surah 44:15,     We shall indeed remove the Penalty for a while (but) truly ye will revert (to your ways).,Akika Yia jin sauki azaba yaa degi akika ye yea kezhe da eko yan etun dedezhi be.
Surah 44:16  ,   One day We shall seize you with a mighty onslaught: We will indeed (then) exact Retribution!,Fo nan Yi ga' wan zazhi kpantsukuy nan akika fo wuncin Yi ga kafirizhi jin azaba.
Surah 44:18   ,     Saying: "Restore to me the Servants of Allah: I am to you an messenger worthy of all trust;,Uci gan: Ye'a wuzhi Soko zhi ku be ya mi akika Tuci mi yio ya ye na ma yi eza amana nan.
Surah 44:19    ,    "And be not arrogant as against Allah: for I come to you with authority manifest.,Ye mae ga la'ti dan fin'o ya Soko ma akika mia be ya ye be hujjazhiy nanzhia tula nan.
Surah 44:20 ,    "For me I have sought safety with my Lord and your Lord against your injuring me.,Mi mae ba etswa be Tsoci mi yin to yan ye ebo eyan na ye'abe ce mi nan.
Surah 44:22,     (But they were aggressive:) then he cried to his Lord: "These are indeed a people given to sin.",Uci ba aduwalo eba Tsociu gan: Akika za nan nazhiy eza lefizhi ayio.
Surah 44:21  ,  "If ye believe me not at least keep yourselves away from me.",Kagan ye ma'a ya gaskiya be mi yin'a to yea dzun gan mi bo.
Surah 44:22,     (But they were aggressive:) then he cried to his Lord: "These are indeed a people given to sin.",Uci ba aduwalo eba Tsociu gan: Akika za nan nazhiy eza lefizhi ayio.
Surah 44:23   , (The reply came:) "March forth with My Servants by night: for ye are sure to be pursued.,Soko ci gan'u gan: A' ezan la tinya to wye to wuzhi mizhi be yshiy akika (za dede nan nan zhiy) aga emi tu ye ye mae la edue lugwa eti kendoe uyi nan akika jamaa yan kafirizhi eza hallakazhi ayio.
Surah 44:24 ,    "And leave the sea as a furrow (divided): for they are a host (destined) to be drowned.",Ye mae la edue lugwa eti kendoe uyi nan akika jamaa yan kafirizhi eza hallakazhi ayio.
Surah 44:25 ,   How many were the gardens and springs they left behind,Ekun dondoa cia tinya a latiazhi to -- ga'a zhi lugwa.
Surah 44:26  ,And corn-fields and noble buildings,To yan nanzhi a dzo kpata nan to emi ko nanzhi a tu nan.
Surah 44:27   ,And wealth (and conveniences of life) wherein they had taken such delight!,To eyan emawoazhi nanzhiy afe wo ma fi nan.
Surah 44:28  , Thus (was their end)! And We made other people inherit (those things)!,Acinga ga u yio Yi cia laa gi gun ya zandocizhi ka'yin.
Surah 44:29  ,     And neither heaven nor earth shed a tear over them: nor were they given a respite (again).,To sanma to kin ma a tigi ya hallaka'a  a ma fe za nanzhiy a tuye gan ko a jin tuba naa.
Surah 44:30  ,    We did deliver aforetime the Children of Israel from humiliating Punishment,Akika yi ya Banu Israilazhi wadzun dagan azaba yan zunye sun'o.
Surah 44:31 ,     Inflicted by Pharaoh for he was arrogant (even) among inordinate transgressors.,Dagan egun Fir'aunao akika eza uyio nae la ti dan fin'o nan u ma yi za nae nyin yan ta eti kin bo nan.
Surah 44:32   ,  And We chose them aforetime above the nations knowingly,Akika yi ga tsa' be kpikpe Yi yin ta eti alittazhi kpatao.
Surah 44:33    ,  And granted them Signs in which there was a manifest trial,Yima la ayazhi be yaa nanzhi miniabo mima cinlezhi fi bo nan.
Surah 44:34,  As to these (Quraish) they say forsooth:,Akika za nannazhiy ajin afe da egan gan gan:
Surah 44:35 ,      "There is nothing beyond our first death and we shall not be raised again.,Yandondo danboa tsutsu de zunni uyio a maa ku yi yekan alkiyami boa.
Surah 44:36  ,  "Then bring (back) our forefathers if what ye say is true!",Wun'ayi gaskiya ga yetao eku yamanci yizhi tinya dagan kabariazhio (yi le ye).
Surah 44:37     ,      What! Are they better than the people of Tubba and those who were before them We destroyed them because they were guilty of sin.,Ngba a ga yi eza alherio kashi jamaa yan Tubbauzhi To zananzhi shiadzo kpata nan Yia jin hallaka. Akika aafe lefi jin ci zhi.
Surah 44:38   ,   We created not the heavens the earth and all between them merely in (idle) sport:,Yi ma jin sanmazhi to kin to yan nanzhi fi tsakaniabo nan ebo edzo boa.
Surah 44:39    ,   We created them not except for just ends: but most of them do not understand.,Yi jin'a jin'a sai de ebo Yi tso gaskiya amma'de ekun dondo zawangizhi a kpea.
Surah 44:40   , Verily the Day of sorting out is the time appointed for all of them-,Akika efo hukunci ba uga yi lokacia baeni bo.
Surah 44:41     ,    The Day when no protector can avail his client in aught and no help can they receive,Efo nan eya wun'a kunke be yandondoe ya eya wun'a nan ama'a jin dozhi taimako woa.
Surah 44:42      , Except such as receive Allah´s Mercy: for He is Exalted in Might Most Merciful.,sai de zana Sokoa gun yeu nan akika Etsu zankpe uyio Etsu yegun uyio.
Surah 44:43,  Verily the tree of Zaqqum,Akika cigban yan zakkumu.
Surah 44:44 ,Will be the food of the Sinful-,Yangici lefi jincizhi uyio.
Surah 44:45 ,  Like molten brass; it will boil in their insides.,Uyi ke yankpa zunzunci nan wun'a fe gbin fe sa fi gbakozhio.Surah 44:46 Like the boiling of scalding water.Ke si sa yan nuwan yipa nan.
Surah 44:47 ,   (A voice will cry: "Seize ye him and drag him into the midst of the Blazing Fire!,Yea egwa sun'u kpantsukuy ye mae gba'u yecie la wun'e ce dan tacin enan yan jahimuo.
Surah 44:48,      "Then pour over his head the Penalty of Boiling Water,Gancin ye cie da nuwan yipa yan azaba gwae be kpea etiazhio.Surah 44:49    "Taste thou (this)! Truly wast thou mighty full of honour!Fe fin azaba ngan wyo gan wyo ga yi za wanciko naa zankpe nao
Surah 44:50  ,   "Truly this is what ye used to doubt!",Nan nan ga yi yan nan ye fe jin kelo kezhin be yin nao.
Surah 44:51   , As to the Righteous (they will be) in a position of Security,Akika Muminizhi a fi mini emi yan amincio.
Surah 44:52 , Among Gardens and Springs;,Mini Aljannazhio nan zhiy nuwanzhie je fi ta'koabo nan.
Surah 44:53  ,  Dressed in fine silk and in rich brocade they will face each other;,Aci ga ewo yan silikizhi fan acia fe ban nan aciga fe dun a eye zhe wu dozhi.
Surah 44:54  , So; and We shall join them to fair women with beautiful big and lustrous eyes.,Acinga gao Yici jin yawozhi yaa be ynzagi Aljannazhiy nanzhi eye kosun'azhie bannan nan.
Surah 44:55    ,There can they call for every kind of fruit in peace and security;,Acia fe wa gigi yan yangici mari-marizhi a ma' fi bo be aminciy.
Surah 44:56   ,      Nor will they there taste Death except the first death; and He will preserve them from the Penalty of the Blazing Fire,-A'kara le tsu tsu ye bea baci yan mafari boa. Soko ma gaa tswa be azaba yan enan jahimuy.
Surah 44:57 ,     As a Bounty from thy Lord! that will be the supreme achievement!,Nan nan daraja uyio dagan eba Tsoci wyo bo wuncin ga ma yi rabo nan wancin nao.
Surah 44:58    ,Verily We have made this (Qur´an) easy in thy tongue in order that they may give heed.,Akika yi ga (Alkuranu) fan be gintara wyo yin ebo adeba a la san'a tu.
Surah 44:59  ,So wait thou and watch; for they (too) are waiting.,Fe tu hallaka'ye akika (kafirizhio tso) a dan yetu yan hallaka wyo bo
