Surah 91:1,  By the Sun and his (glorious) splendour;,Sokoe zhi kuti be yigidii lokacina haske'u gae na laazhin'y nan.
Surah 91:2,  By the Moon as she follows him;,Sokoe zhi kuti be etswae lokacina ugae lamitu yigidi nan.
Surah 91:3 , By the Day as it shows up (the Sun´s) glory;,Sokoe zhi kuti be batin'y lokacina haskeu gaa latu sarauyin nan.
Surah 91:4 , By the Night as it conceals it;,Sokoe zhi kuti be yeshii lokaci na uga' lakpe yigidi nae.
Surah 91:5,  By the Firmament and its (wonderful) structure;,Sokoe zhi kuti be sanmae be zana tu sanma nae.
Surah 91:6  ,By the Earth and its (wide) expanse:,Sokoe zhi kuti be kinyin be zana tau cici nan.
Surah 91:7,  By the Soul and the proportion and order given to it;,Sokoe zhi kuti be rayi yan zawangi be zana jin halittau dai dai nan.
Surah 91:8  ,And its enlightenment as to its wrong and its right;-,Soko cia kpikpe la wu rayi ndondo yan yanazhi yi enyan dedezhi be yanazhi yi wangizhi nan.
Surah 91:9   ,Truly he succeeds that purifies it,Akika Zaeni ndondo na ga yangban'u tadzu na wun'a de rabo.
Surah 91:10,   And he fails that corrupts it!,Akika zaeni ndondoro na ga yangban'u shizhiko na wun'a jin hasara (to yizhe to eku).
Surah 91:11,  The Thamud (people) rejected (their prophet) through their inordinate wrong-doing,Akika Samuduzhi (Nazhi a tun Annabi Salihu fi na) a' aya Soko yi ganmana be gbingbintu'i be lefi Soko nazhi'a fe jin'na.
Surah 91:12,  Behold the most wicked man among them was deputed (for impiety).,Kamina zana jin shakii gan miniabo na nakin nan.
Surah 91:13 ,     But the Messenger of Allah said to them: "It is a She-camel of Allah! And (bar her not from) having her drink!",Tuci Soko (Annabi salihu) cia gan yaa gan: rakun yiwo wuncin yan Soko uyio ebo acin'o elugwa u fin nuwan.
Surah 91:14 ,     Then they rejected him (as a false prophet) and they hamstrung her. So their Lord on account of their crime obliterated their traces and made them equal (in destruction high and low)!,Acia egan Annabi yi ganmanan acia rakun yiwo wuncin wu ebo acin'o Tsocia cicin azaba dede be taa azaba wuncin cia fin ya kpa'ta acia jin dai dai gangani be jikanna kin yin".
Surah 91:15  ,And for Him is no fear of its consequences.,Dansun ndondo ma danbo yan iri yana ayi zoba zanazhi ele Soko ba naa.
