Surah 82:1  , When the Sky is cleft asunder;,Sokoe zhi-kuti be sanmae ka mina ugabea banfi nan.
Surah 82:2 , When the Stars are scattered;,Sokoe zhi-kuti be Tswangi zhi kamina agabea gaya nan.
Surah 82:3,  When the Oceans are suffered to burst forth;,Sokoe zhi-kuti be edu nuwanzhi-lokacina agabea lashe landondo nan.
Surah 82:4 , And when the Graves are turned upside down;-,Sokoe zhi-kuti be koshazhi-I lokacina agabea ekun nazhi finin yinwobo ku tinya nan.
Surah 82:5  ,  (Then) shall each soul know what it hath sent forward and (what it hath) kept back.,Rayi ndondo a'kpe fowunci Etun nazhi uga'lo shidzo na be nazhi ulo'anae.
Surah 82:6  ,   O man! What has seduced thee from thy Lord Most Beneficent-,Ya wyoe zawangi kiyi yanae ta wyoe ciela wyo gan be emilatu foro yan tsoci-wyoe nayi Etsu cinwanci nao.
Surah 82:7   ,Him Who created thee. Fashioned thee in due proportion and gave thee a just bias;,Etsu najin alitta wyona u cikezhe'awojin daidai cikezhea wojin dan ta'cin ta cin alittazhio nan.
Surah 82:8 ,    In whatever Form He wills does He put thee together.,Soko ma'awo jin dan sura wangi'o kendoe u bawna uci kezhea wyo tu tati dozhio.
Surah 82:9 ,  Nay! But ye do reject Right and Judgment!,Yan'na de ejin yena' yeya gaskiya be egagba yan efo alkiyami yin'a.
Surah 82:10,  But verily over you (are appointed angels) to protect you-,Akika Soko jin (alitta mala'ikazhi) nazhi etswa etun yezhi nan.
Surah 82:11, Kind and honourable- Writing down (your deeds):,(Mala'ika Wuncinzhi) eza cinwancizhia yio aga maeka etun na zandondo elo nan'o.
Surah 82:12,  They know (and understand) all that ye do.,Amade kpikpe yan etun nazae nindondo ye elo nan.
Surah 82:13  , As for the Righteous they will be in bliss;,Akika zanazhi gaelamitu foro Soko na a'fi mini ni'imani'o.
Surah 82:14,   And the Wicked - they will be in the Fire,Akika ma leifi jin cizhi a'fi mini enan yan jahimu-o.
Surah 82:15 , Which they will enter on the Day of Judgment,(Lefi jincizhi) aga'a ganfi ena wuncin'o efo egagbae.
Surah 82:16 ,  And they will not be able to keep away therefrom.,Ama'de zana agangwa bonan'a
Surah 82:17   , And what will explain to thee what the Day of Judgment is(Annabi)! ,Zae ma a'ta akika yan efo egagba yawo yao
Surah 82:18  ,   Again what will explain to thee what the Day of Judgment is,Gancin zaedanbo na'ala'akika yan efo egagba wuwye nan'o
Surah 82:19  ,      (It will be) the Day when no soul shall have power (to do) aught for another: For the command that Day will be (wholly) with Allah.,Efo Wuncin a'de rayi na'agikini ya rayindondo wo eti yandondo na'a kagbo yan jin jin yandondo foga'a danba Soko.
