Surah 52:2 ,By a Decree inscribedT,o Litafi na'a ka yan fi nan.
Surah 52:3 , In a Scroll unfolded;,Fi mini epao nan yi kpi kpe ci nan.
Surah 52:4, By the much-frequented Fane;,To Baitu Ma' amuri.
Surah 52:5 ,By the Canopy Raised High;,To katanti nan latu nan.
Surah 52:6, And by the Ocean filled with Swell;-,To edu na'ashe be nuwan'e nan.
Surah 52:7  , Verily the Doom of thy Lord will indeed come to pass;-,Akika azaba yan Tsoci wyoe u ga'ajin tabbata.
Surah 52:8   ,There is none can avert it;-,Ade za nan kan'u gwa wo na'a.
Surah 52:9 ,  On the Day when the firmament will be in dreadful commotion.,Fo nan Sanma gaa kun kun kun yan iyaka nan.
Surah 52:10 , And the mountains will fly hither and thither.,Patizhi ci ga ala ke ya bo baenio.
Surah 52:11  ,Then woe that Day to those that treat (Truth) as Falsehood;-,Azaba yan robonkpe u ga ajin tabbata ya ganmanan zun ci zhi.
Surah 52:12 ,   That play (and paddle) in shallow trifles.,Za nanzhi a cia dan edzo dzo baenio nan.
Surah 52:13  ,   That Day shall they be thrust down to the Fire of Hell irresistibly.,Fo nan a daagwa lo da fi ena ya jahannamao baenio nan
.Surah 52:14  ,   "This: it will be said "Is the Fire- which ye were wont to deny!,(Acia gan'a gan) Ngan nana ga yi ena na ye fe yi ganmanan nao.
Surah 52:15  ,   "Is this then a fake or is it ye that do not see,Ngba eyanma ga dan nao kashi ye leba ye lea
Surah 52:16   ,        "Burn ye therein: the same is it to you whether ye bear it with patience or not: Ye but receive the recompense of your (own) deeds.",E gan fi bo ye'jin ankuri ko ma ye ga jin ankuri ma nini u yio ya yeo. Akika a agaegba ga be iri etun nanzhi ye fe lo nan.
Surah 52:17   , As to the Righteous they will be in Gardens and in Happiness-,Akika za nanzhie sundan Soko nan a fi mini aljannazhio be ni'imae.
Surah 52:18     ,  Enjoying the (Bliss) which their Lord hath bestowed on them and their Lord shall deliver them from the Penalty of the Fire.,Acia fe wo'ma be yan nan Tsocia la ya'a nan. Tsocia ma ga wadzun be azaba yan ena jahimuy.
Surah 52:19  ,   (To them will be said:) "Eat and drink ye with profit and health because of your (good) deeds.",(Acia gan'a gan): Efe gi ye mae fe fin be ninmae egagba wuncin yi ebo etun nanzhiy ye ce lo izhe o nan.
Surah 52:20,      They will recline (with ease) on Thrones (of dignity) arranged in ranks; and We shall join them to Companions with beautiful big and lustrous eyes.,Aci ga kpetso gadozhio nanzhi yi titacizhi nan Yi vi ga yawo jin yaa be ynzagi aljannazhiy.
Surah 52:21      ,            And those who believe and whose families follow them in Faith- to them shall We join their families: Nor shall We deprive them (of the fruit) of aught of their works: (Yet) is each individual in pledge for his deeds.,Za nan zhi a imani jin nan zuriyazhi cia mi tua eti imani jin'o nanyi ga ku keba be zuriya'zhiy Yi maa ke etun'azhi tukun 'a. Zandondo'a ga etun nan'u ga lo nan la'a kpe tso'u.
Surah 52:22  ,  And We shall bestow on them of fruit and meat anything they shall desire.,Yi ma'a kezhe twarya ya'abe yangici mari marizhiy to nankan mini yannanzhi a gae de sha'awau nan.
Surah 52:23     ,  They shall there exchange one with another a (loving) cup free of frivolity free of all taint of ill.,A fe fin eyan managizhi atso be dozhiy fi mini'u boa le fi jinma danboa.
Surah 52:24,      Round about them will serve (devoted) to them young male servants (handsome) as Pearls well-guarded.,Egi wawagi aljannazhi cia fe mae ke zhe wyo ga le'a ye wyoa ye gan ko alulu'I naa swo nan a yio.
Surah 52:25 ,   They will advance to each other engaging in mutual enquiry.,Saashiazhi ma a ga ye zhe wu sashi acia fe gbin dozhi gan.
Surah 52:26   ,   They will say: "Aforetime we were not without fear for the sake of our people.,A ci gan: Akika Yi ya fe zhidzo ba tso zhio yi fe sundan Soko dan mini iyali yi zhio.
Surah 52:27     ,"But Allah has been good to us and has delivered us from the Penalty of the Scorching Wind.,Soko cia eryatwau la aya yi (yinnan) U cia yi gangwa be azaba nan yi tsun tsun nunae.
Surah 52:27 ,    "But Allah has been good to us and has delivered us from the Penalty of the Scorching Wind.,Soko cia eryatwau la aya yi (yinnan) U cia yi gangwa be azaba nan yi tsun tsun nunae.
Surah 52:28  ,      "Truly we did call unto Him from of old: truly it is He the Beneficent the Merciful!",Akika Yi ya tun izhe bastozhio yi fe ba (gwagan) be Sokoe. Akika Etsu eryatwa uyio. Etsu yegun uyio.
Surah 52:29   ,    Therefore proclaim thou the praises (of thy Lord): for by the Grace of thy Lord thou art no (vulgar) soothsayer nor art thou one possessed.,Wyo mao feo jin wa'azi akika wyo jin eyan mancia wyo ma jin ilanduci be ni'ima yan Tsoci wyo yin'a.
Surah 52:29    ,   Therefore proclaim thou the praises (of thy Lord): for by the Grace of thy Lord thou art no (vulgar) soothsayer nor art thou one possessed.,Wyo mao feo jin wa'azi akika wyo jin eyan mancia wyo ma jin ilanduci be ni'ima yan Tsoci wyo yin'a.
Surah 52:30,      Or do they say:- "A Poet! we await for him some calamity (hatched) by Time!",Kashiy e gangan gan; enikoci u yi ebo acin'o yi fi'itu'u ye be yan nan egbazhe dede yan zaman gi gun nan.
Surah 52:31   ,  Say thou: "Await ye!- I too will wait along with you!",Gan gan: Efe tuye akika mi tso dan gan-ni be ye yin eba eyetuo.
Surah 52:32  ,     Is it that their faculties of understanding urge them to this or are they but a people transgressing beyond boundsKashiy ena nan'azhi gae jin'a foro be nan nazhi yin'o Kashiy adea fe jamaa nanzhie -- iyaka Soko gan nan
Surah 52:33  ,   Or do they say "He fabricated the (Message)" Nay they have no faith!,Kashiy egan-gan gan; u tswa'u tswa A'a ade jin imani jin'a.
Surah 52:34 ,    Let them then produce a recital like unto it- If (it be) they speak the truth!,Wun'ayi acin'o aabe be egan ndoci na ga ade Alkuranu nan wun'ayi gaskiya tacizhi a yio nan.
Surah 52:35    ,   Were they created of nothing or were they themselves the creators,Kashiy; ujin eyan a jin alitta'a ya'a Kahiy atso tsae jin alitta dozhio.
Surah 52:36    ,  Or did they create the heavens and the earth Nay they have no firm belief.,Kashiy a ga jin alitta yan Sanmazhi to kin yin'o A'a a de ya gaskiya'a.
Surah 52:37   ,   Or are the Treasures of thy Lord with them or are they the managers (of affairs),Kashiy edzunba yan arziki be'a yin u dan'o kashi aga wun I'ko ta eti zazhibo
Surah 52:38  ,      Or have they a ladder by which they can (climb up to heaven and) listen (to its secrets) Then let (such a) listener of theirs produce a manifest proof.,Kashiy a yi be ekpae yi nan a tsoe a tsoe la wogan dagan sanmao nan gancin za nae wo gan be yaa na cie be yaa be hujja nanzhia latu nae
Surah 52:39 ,   Or has He only daughters and ye have sons,Kashiy Wun'y (Soko) ga wun egi ynagizhio ye ci wun bagizhio
Surah 52:40    ,  Or is it that thou dost ask for a reward so that they are burdened with a load of debt-,Kashiy Wyo'e gbin'agan lada gbin edu nan wyo la ta'a nan cia lukpin fia
Surah 52:41  ,  Or that the Unseen in it their hands and they write it down,Kashiy eba'abo ga kpikpe swiswocizhi dan'o Ebo can'o acie ka yan nanzhi ga baa nan
Surah 52:42    ,  Or do they intend a plot (against thee) But those who defy Allah are themselves involved in a Plot!,Kashiy e pa makirinci ndoci pa Akika za nazhi ajin kafirinci nan atso ga egun yan makirinci a gio.
Surah 52:43    ,    Or have they a god other than Allah Exalted is Allah far above the things they associate with Him!,Kashiy a yi Tsoci ndoci yi baci Soko. Lili kpata ajin tabbata ya Soko ke yan nazhi e la pau baci nan lugwa.
Surah 52:44  ,      Were they to see a piece of the sky falling (on them) they would (only) say: "Clouds gathered in heaps!",Ama ga le kansan ndoci ye sanmao na'a sa ya zhi kin nan a gan gan; girgjezhio nan tu ta'ti dozhio nao.
Surah 52:45 ,     So leave them alone until they encounter that Day of theirs wherein they shall (perforce) swoon (with terror)-,Dzun gan'a bo har da fo nan a be gun be efoa yin naajin'a azaba danbo nan.
Surah 52:46       , The Day when their plotting will avail them nothing and no help shall be given them.,Fo nan tanadizhi wun'a kunke yaa be yandondo yin'a nan a maade za naajin'a taimako naa.
Surah 52:47     ,    And verily for those who do wrong there is another punishment besides this: But most of them understand not.,Akika azaba danbo ya azwalumi zhi kayin amma'de ekun dondoazhi akpea.
Surah 52:48      ,   Now await in patience the command of thy Lord: for verily thou art in Our eyes: and celebrate the praises of thy Lord the while thou standest forth,A ankuri be hukunci yan Tsoci wyo yin akika etswa Yi dan be wyo yin wyo mao fe o li Soko ganni be yebo jin ya Tsoci wyo yin Kandondo nan wyo ga nankin nan.
Surah 52:49,    And for part of the night also praise thou Him- and at the retreat of the stars,!To mini yeshio wyo li'u tsa tsa yin to ka mi nan tswangizhi ga zunma zheta nan
