Surah 85:1,   By the sky (displaying) the Zodiacal Signs;,Sokoe zhikuti be sanma'e nayibe ecinba yan tswangizhi-ina.
Surah 85:2 ,By the promised Day (of Judgment);,Sokoe zhikuti be efonini nan wun'ajin halittazhi kpa'ata alkawali na (ugayi efo kiyama'o).
Surah 85:3, By one that witnesses and the subject of the witness;-,Sokoe zhikuti be zanae jin rina be yana' ejinri ti'ubo na.
Surah 85:4  ,Woe to the makers of the pit (of fire),La'ana yan Soko wun'ajin tabbata ya zanazhi egbagu- she aza'aba ya muminizhi nan.
Surah 85:5,  Fire supplied (abundantly) with fuel:,Aciele gushe wuncinzhi she be-enan kikeci-ina.
Surah 85:5,  Fire supplied (abundantly) with fuel:,Aciele gushe wuncinzhi she be-enan kikeci-ina.
Surah 85:6,   Behold! they sat over against the (fire),Kanga atso nunsa-kafirizhi cia fedun -- ba enan na'agun nan.
Surah 85:7  ,   And they witnessed (all) that they were doing against the Believers.,Acife cin iri azba naejin muminizhi na le.
Surah 85:8   ,     And they ill-treated them for no other reason than that they believed in Allah Exalted in Power Worthy of all Praise!-A,mae jin'a azaba nnazhi jin'a sai dai ebo gaskiya na'aya be Sokoe nan. Etsu na yi Etsu zankpe na Etsu na zandondoe jin yebo ya na.
Surah 85:9    ,     Him to Whom belongs the dominion of the heavens and the earth! And Allah is Witness to all things.,Etsu nawun mulki sanma be kin yin kpa'atana akika Soko ecin yandondo le
Surah 85:10   ,          Those who persecute (or draw into temptation) the Believers men and women and do not turn in repentance will have the Penalty of Hell: They will have the Penalty of the Burning Fire.,Akika zanazhi ajin afe la fitina datsun mumini ba'agizhi be mumina yinzagizhina ama ba gafara be Soko yan'ana azaba yan jahannama wun'ajin tabbata ya'a azaba na'e po zana wun'ajin tabbata ta etiabo.
Surah 85:11      ,       For those who believe and do righteous deeds will be Gardens; beneath which rivers flow: That is the great Salvation (the fulfilment of all desires),Akika zanazhi ga imani jin na acie kezhe lotun wangi wangizhina aljanna na Soko panin be nuwan lilici na wun'ajin tabbata ya'a akika nanan Robo wanciko uyio.
Surah 85:12   ,Truly strong is the Grip (and Power) of thy Lord.,Akika winwan (azaba) yan Tsoci wye u tsanin sarauyin.
Surah 85:13,   It is He Who creates from the very beginning and He can restore (life).,Akika Soko gaeca jin jin halittazhio wun gama a kezhe bea ye rayi dan ba'aci ajali'abo.
Surah 85:14,  And He is the Oft-Forgiving Full of Loving-Kindness,Soko gama yi Etsu nae jin wuzhi gaafara nan'o u mayi Etsu nade cincin ya halittazhi kpata nan.
Surah 85:15  ,Lord of the Throne of Glory,Soko gawun gado mulki yan Al'arashi na wancin nao.
Surah 85:16  ,Doer (without let) of all that He intends.,Soko Etsu uyio nae jin yan'na bau na.
Surah 85:17  , Has the story reached thee of the forces-,Annabi! Ngba wyo de la'bari yan ekunguncizhi'anii
Surah 85:18, Of Pharaoh and the Thamud,Ekungunci yan Fir'auna be Samuduzhi.
Surah 85:19    ,And yet the Unbelievers (persist) in rejecting (the Truth)!,Akika kafirizhi'ajin afe yi aya Soko ganmana.
Surah 85:20  , But Allah doth encompass them from behind!,Soko ma'a alamarizhi makezhe zunmao baenio.
Surah 85:21  , Day this is a Glorious Qur´an,Akika egan nnazhi kpata yan alkur'anu na wancin nan ayio.
Surah 85:22  ,(Inscribed) in a Tablet Preserved!,Na dan mini elo nayi tswitswaci nan.
