Surah 79:1,  By the (angels) who tear out (the souls of the wicked) with violence;,Sokoe zhi kuti be Malaikauzhi nazhi' edza rayi yan kafirizhi be kagbo-enan.
Surah 79:2 ,By those who gently draw out (the souls of the blessed);,Soko ezhi kuti be Mala'ikauzhi nazhi ewa rayi yan muminizhi karayin be yegun'inan.
Surah 79:3 ,And by those who glide along (on errands of mercy),Sokoezhi kuti be Mala'ikauzhi nazhi edin-yin dan lulo etun Soko'o nan.
Surah 79:4, Then press forward as in a race,Soko ezhi kuti be Mala'ikazhi nanzhie bichi dan lulo etun-ona Ke eci maci zhi nan.
Surah 79:5, Then arrange to do (the Commands of their Lord),Soko ezhi kuti be Mala'ikazhi nazhi elayedan alamari Soko dan izheo nan.
Surah 79:6,  One Day everything that can be in commotion will be in violent commotion,(Efe pa) Efona aabe kafo nyan mafari nan.
Surah 79:7, Followed by oft-repeated (commotions):,Kafo nyan ba-ci ciabe lamitu'u nan.
Surah 79:8 , Hearts that Day will be in agitation;,Yangban yan kundondo zazhi ga'a wodan fowuncin.
Surah 79:9 ,Cast down will be (their owners´) eyes.,Fuska nyan kundondo zazhi ga'a gbagba fowuncin.
Surah 79:10  ,  They say (now): "What! shall we indeed be returned to (our) former state,Aciafe gangan beke agayi dan rayi dan da kendoe yiyi pa-yin-na
Surah 79:10  ,  They say (now): "What! shall we indeed be returned to (our) former state,Aciafe gangan beke agayi dan rayi dan da kendoe yiyi pa-yin-na
Surah 79:11   ,"What! - when we shall have become rotten bones",Ba 'aci na yiazhe tsukun nazhi agiya acia ban nan.
Surah 79:12,    They say: "It would in that case be a return with loss!",Acigan: u dema'ayi acin'o kundondo zazhi ga'ajin asara.
Surah 79:12  ,  They say: "It would in that case be a return with loss!",Acigan: u dema'ayi acin'o kundondo zazhi ga'ajin asara.
Surah 79:13,   But verily it will be but a single (Compelling) Cry,Akika al'amari' nyan ekin-na efo kiyama ewuti nin kete un'ga'a kunke'o.
Surah 79:14,  When behold they will be in the (full) awakening (to Judgment).,Eda-na agae be'una alittazhi kpa'ata ga'gunyekan zhi fili ega-gba'o.
Surah 79:15,   Has the story of Moses reached thee,Ya'a wye Annabi ngba labari yan (Annabi) Musa be-ebawo ya' nin
Surah 79:16 ,    Behold thy Lord did call to him in the sacred valley of Tuwa:-,Nyan kakun-na Tsociu yin pati nayi lilici naeyigan tuwa-nao.
Surah 79:17,    "Go thou to Pharaoh for he has indeed transgressed all bounds:,Soko cigan ya'u gan; u naukin u'loeba fir'auna ebona fir'auna a gbin nugun nyan Soko tu.
Surah 79:18 ,    "And say to him ´Wouldst thou that thou shouldst be purified (from sin),-Wyo gan-oyan'u gan: Wun- awa lili ya eti tacin-wyun'a
Surah 79:19,   "´And that I guide thee to thy Lord so thou shouldst fear Him´",Ebo wyo gaewa min' la eko nyan Tsocin wuwye wolaofezanae sundan Soko nan.
Surah 79:20 , Then did (Moses) show him the Great Sign.(Annabi Musa) Cila a'ya nawancin-na wu fir'auna.
Surah 79:21 But (Pharaoh) rejected it and disobeyed (guidance);,Amma' Fir'auna a'aya Soko yi ganmanan u ci fe le sokoba loyegboro.
Surah 79:22,  Further he turned his back striving hard (against Allah).,Ucia Zummazhe cie jin yanna bauna.
Surah 79:23 ,Then he collected (his men) and made a proclamation,U cia jama'a zhi kuyekan Zhizhi uci ya mi yaa.
Surah 79:24   ,Saying "I am your Lord Most High".,Uci fe-gan gan: mi (Fir'auna) gayi tsoci ye natso latu gan nan-o.
Surah 79:25  ,  But Allah did punish him (and made an) example of him - in the Hereafter as in this life.,Soko ciu wan ebo lefi natso-u jin zunma-o na to yan mafari na-ujin nan.
Surah 79:26  ,   Verily in this is an instructive warning for whosoever feareth (Allah).,Akikawuncin-na'ajin be fir'auna nan uga afe gan-gba ya zanazhi gae-sudan Soko nan.
Surah 79:27  ,   What! Are ye the more difficult to create or the heaven (above) (Allah) hath constructed it:,Yegayi alita natso gboka gan-nao Kashi sanma (Gutwaba) nayi tu gikin-ni bekagbo e'nan
Surah 79:28 , On high hath He raised its canopy and He hath given it order and perfection.,Soko cia sama latu uci kezhi'u jin daidai.
Surah 79:29 ,  Its night doth He endow with darkness and its splendour doth He bring out (with light).,Soko cia Yeshiu laa shi Zhiko ucia yigidi'u la'ana-behaske.
Surah 79:30,   And the earth moreover hath He extended (to a wide expanse);,Ba'aci wuncin'o ucia ta cici pa'arae.
Surah 79:31 ,  He draweth out therefrom its moisture and its pasture;,Ucia nuwan la'dzunzhin dagan mini-u-bo gangani be yangici nyan dabbazhi.
Surah 79:32 ,And the mountains hath He firmly fixed;-,Soko ma kezhea patizhi kan gikinbo be kagboe.
Surah 79:33,  For use and convenience to you and your cattle.,(Kpata (Yannazhi) ebo alaafe eyan emawoa yayezawangizhi to dabba yezhi.
Surah 79:34,   Therefore when there comes the great overwhelming (Event)-,(Amma'de) Efona ebazhe wanciko nyan kiyama gabe dabe nan.
Surah 79:35 ,   The Day when man shall remember (all) that he strove for,Efo wuncin Zawangi-ndondo wun apa iri etun nazhi u lo izhe-o-nana.
Surah 79:36  , And Hell-Fire shall be placed in full view for (all) to see-,Aciga ena nyan jahimi la'akefili yazanazhi ga-- yin a liuye nan.
Surah 79:37  ,Then for such as had transgressed all bounds,Akika Zandondo naga'afe zanaegbin iyaka Soko tunan.
Surah 79:38,  And had preferred the life of this world,Uci Kezhiea' cincin nyan-izhe la'agboka dan yangban'ubo a gan yan alkiyami na.
Surah 79:39,   The Abode will be Hell-Fire;,Akika ena nyan jahimu ga'ayi' ezhe-keba-wun-o.
Surah 79:40     ,   And for such as had entertained the fear of standing before their Lord´s (tribunal) and had restrained (their) soul from lower desires,Amma'de Zandondo naga'afe zanae'sundan kinigi yegboro yan Tsoci-u- bonan ucia eyan sha'hawa yizhe la'akan yangban'u na.
Surah 79:41,   Their abode will be the Garden.,Akika Aljanna-ga'ayi ezhe keba wun-o.
Surah 79:42  ,  They ask thee about the Hour-´When will be its appointed time,(Kafirizhi) A'ajin afe gbinwyogan-gan:Fociotsa a'jin Kiyama-o
Surah 79:43,   Wherein art thou (concerned) with the declaration thereof,Kinigiba kici wyoga' 'akpe akika yan efo kiyama yeo
Surah 79:44 , With thy Lord in the Limit fixed therefor.,Kpikpe yan alamari Kiyama Kpata dan-be Sokoe.
Surah 79:45,    Thou art but a Warner for such as fear it.,Etun yan-wyo-de wyojin ganga'oya zanazhi gae sundan efo kiyama-nan.
Surah 79:46  ,      The Day they see it (It will be) as if they had tarried but a single evening or (at most till) the following morn!,Fondondo nan aga efo kiyama leyena zandondo-afe leye ke edunfe wyin kabario uyi daidai be lokaci yeshi nini-nan ko ke lokaci yan wallae na.
