Surah 51:1 , By the (Winds) that scatter broadcast;,Sokoe zhi kuti be efe nae ti be kagboe nan.
Surah 51:2 ,And those that lift and bear away heavy weights;,Sokoe zhi kuti be girgjezhiy nae shi ucie la nuwa kpan nan.
Surah 51:3 ,And those that flow with ease and gentleness;,Sokoe zhi kuti be eyanuwanzhiy nanzhie dazan be kara wanciko zhiy nan.
Surah 51:4 ,And those that distribute and apportion by Command;-,Sokoe zhi kuti be Malaikazhiy nan zhie gan alamari Soko zhi za nan.
Surah 51:5  ,Verily that which ye are promised is true;,Akika yan nanzhi-e la'a jin 'ye alkawali nan gaskiya uyio.Surah 51:6  And verily Judgment and Justice must indeed come to pass.Akika ma egagba yan Alkiyami gaskiya uyio (a gau jin)
Surah 51:7 , By the Sky with (its) numerous Paths,Soko ezhi kuti be sanmae nan yi be falakizhiy (ekozhiy) nan.
Surah 51:8   ,Truly ye are in a doctrine discordant,Akika yedan mini egan nan zhia ce leba do zhi nao.
Surah 51:9  , Through which are deluded (away from the Truth) such as would be deluded.,A mae la'u pan zandocizhi ya dagan gaskiyao (lo ganmanan).
Surah 51:10 ,Woe to the falsehood-mongers-,Soko'a ganmanan zuncizhi bo'mi.
Surah 51:11  ,  Those who (flounder) heedless in a flood of confusion:,Za nanzhi a ya ye dan igbe o izheo nan.
Surah 51:12 ,  They ask "When will be the Day of Judgment and Justice",A cie gbin gan zan gan. Ngba foci a alkiyamio.
Surah 51:13 ,   (It will be) a Day when they will be tried (and tested) over the Fire!,Fo nan a ga'a ma'acin le dede ta eti ena o nan.
Surah 51:14   ,   "Taste ye your trial! This is what ye used to ask to be hastened!",Efe fin fitinan ye tsozhi nan nan ga yi azaba nan ye fe din ye yan bibe u nao
.Surah 51:15,    As to the Righteous they will be in the midst of Gardens and Springs,Akika za nazhie tswa Soko nan a fi mini Aljannazhio be nuwan nanzhie je tinya nae.
Surah 51:16    ,    Taking joy in the things which their Lord gives them because before then they lived a good life.,A tso guiri be yan nan Tsocia la'ya'a nan. Akika shidzo batsozhio a fe za nazhie jin bolobolo nan.
Surah 51:17 ,    They were in the habit of sleeping but little by night,A fe za nazhiy lokaci de gi mini yeshio u gae laa le le o nan.
Surah 51:18,  And in the hour of early dawn they (were found) praying for Forgiveness;,Lokaci yan sahuru (fafa) gaajin ma ajin afe ba gafara.
Surah 51:19 ,   And in their wealth and possessions (was remembered) the right of the (needy) him who asked and him who (for some reason) was prevented (from asking).,Mini dukiyaazhio ma e'tswa hakki yan za nae ba yan nan ganni be za nae wan miniu cie ba'a nan.
Surah 51:20  , On the earth are signs for those of assured Faith,Mini kin bo ma a yazhi fibo yan sinsantu ya zananzhiy ga gaskiya ya nan.
Surah 51:21,   As also in your own selves: Will ye not then see,To mini eti tacin'ye tso (ayazhi fi bo) kashiy ye ba ye lea.
Surah 51:22,    And in heaven is your Sustenance as (also) that which ye are promised.,Arziki yezhi ma to yan nanzhiy a jin ye alkawali nan u fi mini sanmao.
Surah 51:23 ,       Then by the Lord of heaven and earth this is the very Truth as much as the fact that ye can speak intelligently to each other.,Mi ma zhi kuti be Tsoci yan sanma be kin yin akika alamari wuncin gaskiya uyio kendoe de ye kpemi cie gan gan nan.
Surah 51:24 ,    Has the story reached thee of the honoured guests of Abraham,Ngba eza yan ega (Annabi) Ibrahima tun eba wyo yia ni
Surah 51:25  ,      Behold they entered his presence and said: "Peace!" He said "Peace!" (and thought "These seem) unusual people.",Ka mi nan a gandan eba'ubo nan aci gan; "Aminci ula'u jin tabbatau ya ye za nanzhiy yi kpe'a yea nan.
Surah 51:26     ,Then he turned quickly to his household brought out a fatted calf,Uci san nin lo'eba iyaliuzhi uci be be soya yan nanko gigi nan nankan nan.
Surah 51:27  ,  And placed it before them.. he said "Will ye not eat",Uci'u la'a tso ba'a U ci gan: "kashiy ye'a gia
Surah 51:28  ,      (When they did not eat) He conceived a fear of them. They said "Fear not" and they gave him glad tidings of a son endowed with knowledge.,U cia ya dansun'a yin wo swiswoci Aci gan: "Ga sundan ma aci yau labari yangban fa yan egi bagi nan gaazhe Man nan.
Surah 51:29     ,   But his wife came forward (laughing) aloud: she smote her forehead and said: "A barren old woman!",Yinmin'u cia tin ya be ninmae ucia fuskau dan yan uci gan: "Ynzagi na'a kuku u nae magia nan (gbani tsa wun'a be magio)
Surah 51:30   ,    They said "Even so has thy Lord spoken: and He is full of Wisdom and Knowledge.",Acigan: A cinga ga Tsoci wyo gan'o akika Etsu hikima uyio Etsu kpikpe u yio.
Surah 51:31,    (Abraham) said: "And what O ye Messengers is your errand (now)",U ci gan: Kiy yi akika yan nan la ye be nao Ya Tucizhiy
Surah 51:32,     They said "We have been sent to a people (deep) in sin;-,Aci gan; Akika a tun yi tun fi jama'a ndocizhi nanzhie jin lefi kpe kin bo nan.
Surah 51:33  ,  "To bring on on them (a shower of) stones of clay (brimstone),Ebo yi be'y jin'a azaba be takunzhi yan lankpa nan yi yi pa nan.
Surah 51:33,    "To bring on on them (a shower of) stones of clay (brimstone),Ebo yi be'y jin'a azaba be takunzhi yan lankpa nan yi yi pa nan.
Surah 51:34   ,"Marked as from thy Lord for those who trespass beyond bounds.",Nanzhiy ma a jin alaamaazhi dagan nko yan Tsoci wyo bo nan ebo a la'ajin lefi jincinzhi azaba.
Surah 51:35  ,   Then We evacuated those of the Believers who were there,Yi cia zandondo nan ga yi Mumini nan la'atin ya mi nin bo.
Surah 51:36 ,     But We found not there any just (Muslim) persons except in one house:,Yi ma tsun emi ndondo boa sai de emi nini nan yi yan Musulumizhi nan.
Surah 51:36  ,    But We found not there any just (Muslim) persons except in one house:,Yi ma tsun emi ndondo boa sai de emi nini nan yi yan Musulumizhi nan.
Surah 51:37    ,  And We left there a Sign for such as fear the Grievous Penalty.,Yima aya lugwa dan bo ebo ula'u fe sinsantu'u ya za nan zhi gae sundan azaba nan tan nan.
Surah 51:38    ,   And in Moses (was another Sign): Behold We sent him to Pharaoh with authority manifest.,To mini Musao Kami nan Yi tun'u tun fi Fir'auna be hujja naa tula nan.
Surah 51:39 ,    But (Pharaoh) turned back with his Chiefs and said "A sorcerer or one possessed!",U cia zuma ce ta ganni be jamaa yan 'uzhiy ucigan: Eyan maci uyio ilanduci yio.
Surah 51:40,      So We took him and his forces and threw them into the sea; and his was the blame.,Ebo acin'o Yi ciu wan to jamaa yan'uzhi Yi cia ceya fi mini eduo wunsto cia fe za na'a jin tacin'u zargi nan.
Surah 51:41 ,     And in the ´Ad (people) (was another Sign): Behold We sent against them the devastating Wind:,To mini labari Aduzhio (aya danbo) kami nan Yi tun efe tsuntsun-nu fia nan (efe nan albarka dan'a nan).
Surah 51:42,        It left nothing whatever that it came up against but reduced it to ruin and rottenness.,Wyn'e lu yandondo nan'uga keba be yin nan gwa'a sal u gau laafe ke tsukun gwi gwoci nan.
Surah 51:43    ,   And in the Thamud (was another Sign): Behold they were told "Enjoy (your brief day) for a little while!",To mini labari Samuduzhio kami nan a gan ya gan: Efe woma da eka degi nan.
Surah 51:44   ,    But they insolently defied the Command of their Lord: So the stunning noise (of an earthquake) seized them even while they were looking on.,Acia gbo 'tika be alamari Tsocia yin kabara dede cia wan atso ma fe cin ba le.
Surah 51:45   ,   Then they could not even stand (on their feet) nor could they help themselves.Ade kagbo (kanga) nan a ga a nankin naa ama de za nazhia jin'a Taimako na'a.
Surah 51:46       So were the People of Noah before them for they wickedly transgressed.,To jama'a yan Nuhu zhio tso shidzo batso zhio aafe jama'a nan zhiy yi fasikizhi nan.
Surah 51:47 ,   With power and skill did We construct the Firmament: for it is We Who create the vastness of pace.,Sanma ma Yi tu'utu be kagboe akika ma Etsu iko Yi yio.
Surah 51:48  , And We have spread out the (spacious) earth: How excellently We do spread out!,To kin yin'otso ma Yi ga ta'u cicio. Madalla be Etsu nan ta kincici parae nan.
Surah 51:49   ,   And of every thing We have created pairs: That ye may receive instruction.,Yi ma eba be yiwoe jin dan mini yan dondo ebo ye lae San'e tu.
Surah 51:50   ,    Hasten ye then (at once) to Allah: I am from Him a Warner to you clear and open!,Ebo acin'o efe bici da ba Soko akika gangba jinci mi yio naa tulanan nan ma fe be dagan ebau bo nan.
Surah 51:51   ,       And make not another an object of worship with Allah: I am from Him a Warner to you clear and open!,Ega la tsoci ndoci a pa Soko baci ma akika gangba jinci naa tula nan u ga mi yi dagan ebau bo.
Surah 51:52       ,     Similarly no messenger came to the Peoples before them but they said (of him) in like manner "A sorcerer or one possessed"!,Acinga ga alamarizhi yio kandondo nan Tuci ga lo eba za nanzhi shia dzo nan sai a ga gan gan: Eyan maci u yio ilanduci u yio.
Surah 51:53   ,  Is this the legacy they have transmitted one to another Nay they are themselves a people transgressing beyond bounds!,Kashiy ajin dozhi wasiyanci jin A'a ade yi jamaa nanzhie gwo iyaka Soko gan nan.
Surah 51:54    ,So turn away from them: not thine is the blame.,Dzun'gan'abo akika wyo jin za nan a jin zargi na'a.
Surah 51:55  ,  But teach (thy Message) for teaching benefits the Believers.,Wyo mao feo jin waazi akika wa'zi ejin muminizhi anfani.
Surah 51:56 ,    I have only created Jinns and men that they may serve Me.,Mi ma jin alitta yan jannuzhi to zawangizhi ebo yandondo boa sai da ebo aajin bauta'a ya mi.
Surah 51:57    ,    No Sustenance do I require of them nor do I require that they should feed Me.,Mi wa arziki ndondo gwata'a boa Mi ma wa gan a ya Mi yangici'a gia.
Surah 51:58   ,   For Allah is He Who gives (all) Sustenance- Lord of Power- Steadfast (for ever).,Akika Soko gayi Etsu arzikio Etsu nan gboka sarauyin nan.
Surah 51:59   ,     For the Wrong-doers their portion is like unto the portion of their fellows (of earlier generations): then let them not ask Me to hasten (that portion)!,Akika Zananzhi jin zwalunci nan zunubizhi ta etia bo iri zunubi nanzhi ta eti dozhin'a zhio nan ebo acin'o a ga din ye be azabae ma.
Surah 51:60,      Woe then to the Unbelievers on account of that Day of theirs which they have been promised!,Egiti yan robokpewun'ajin tabbata ya kafirizhi dan mini efo'a nan Soko'ajin'a alkawali nao.
