Surah 56:1 ,  When the Event inevitable cometh to pass,Kami nan yan na'ajin nan u ga bea jin nan. (U ga yi alkiyamio).
Surah 56:2,  Then will no (soul) entertain falsehood concerning its coming.,A ma'ade zandondo na'ayi jin jin'u ganmanan na'a.
Surah 56:3, (Many) will it bring low; (many) will it exalt;,Efo u yio nae gba zazhi nan U ma yi efo elatu ya zandocizhi.
Surah 56:4  , When the earth shall be shaken to its depths,Kami nan a gabe du kin du yan iya ka nan.
Surah 56:5 , And the mountains shall be crumbled to atoms,A ci ga patizhi gwo ruku gwi gwo yan iyaka.
Surah 56:6  ,Becoming dust scattered abroad,A ci ga'fe rungba nan a ga ya nan.
Surah 56:7  ,And ye shall be sorted out into three classes.,Yeci ga' ganfi jamaazhi iri guba.
Surah 56:8   , Then (there will be) the Companions of the Right Hand;- What will be the Companions of the Right Hand,Za ba gwalozhi danbo ki mae ye zaba gwalozhio
Surah 56:9  ,  And the Companions of the Left Hand- what will be the Companions of the Left Hand,To zaba gwapinzhi danbo ki' mae ye zaba gwa 'pinzhio
Surah 56:10 ,And those Foremost (in Faith) will be Foremost (in the Hereafter).,To za nan zhie sa'gana be dozhiy eti etun alherio nan. (edzoshicizhi)
Surah 56:11 ,These will be those Nearest to Allah:,Zawuncinzhi a ga yi eza tsonbazhio.

Surah 56:12  ,In Gardens of Bliss:,A fi mini aljannazhio nanzhi yi emi ni'ima nan.
Surah 56:13,  A number of people from those of old,A ma do kun fi tacin za mafarizhio.
Surah 56:14 , And a few from those of later times.,A ma yi za degi mini eza zoba zhio.
Surah 56:14  ,And a few from those of later times.,A ma yi za degi mini eza zoba zhio.
Surah 56:15,  (They will be) on Thrones encrusted (with gold and precious stones),A kpe eti gadozhio nan'a pa nin nan.
Surah 56:16 , Reclining on them facing each other.,Aciga' kpetso ta etiabo a fe woman cia fe cin dozhi le.
Surah 56:17   ,Round about them will (serve) youths of perpetual (freshness),Egi dzakangizhi nanzhiy eyazhi yi nini amaa kuku'a nan cia fe ma'a kezhe.
Surah 56:18 ,   With goblets (shining) beakers and cups (filled) out of clear-flowing fountains:,Be kopuzhi to darozhi to evo yan egye nae tin ya da eye yan nuwan manangi o nan.
Surah 56:19  ,  No after-ache will they receive therefrom nor will they suffer intoxication:,A wo etisan be'u yin'a ama'a pea.
Surah 56:20  ,And with fruits any that they may select:,To yan gici sunsunzhi a fe tsa nan ga ba'a nan miniabo.
Surah 56:21  , And the flesh of fowls any that they may desire.,To nankan elugi (mannagi) mini nanzhi a gae de shahawa u nan.
Surah 56:22 ,And (there will be) Companions with beautiful big and lustrous eyes-,To ynzagi yan Hurul'ainizhi nanzhi eye kosun'azhi fubokun zhikotso ma shizhiko sarauyin nan.
Surah 56:23,  Like unto Pearls well-guarded.,Ke kwotonkwoci yan alulu'igi na'a swo nan.
Surah 56:24   ,A Reward for the deeds of their past (life).,Egagba uyio yan etun wangi nanzhiy a fe lo nan.
Surah 56:25,     Not frivolity will they hear therein nor any taint of ill-,A shi tukpa wo egan banza boa ama'a wo egan lefi boa.
Surah 56:26   ,Only the saying "Peace! Peace".,Sai de emisa yan aminci (Sallama) tsakaniabo be dozhi.
Surah 56:27,    The Companions of the Right Hand- what will be the Companions of the Right Hand,To za ba gwalozhi ki'ima'ala za ba gwalozhi wu wyo yao
Surah 56:28  ,(They will be) among Lote-trees without thorns,A'fimini cigbanzhio nanzhi de ekan'a za ba gwalozhi wu wyo yao
Surah 56:29, Among Talh trees with flowers (or fruits) piled one above another-,To cigba yabazhi nanzhia tu ta eti dozhio nan.
Surah 56:30, In shade long-extended,To wuru de epe nan.
Surah 56:30, In shade long-extended,To wuru de epe nan.
Surah 56:31 ,By water flowing constantly,To nuwan nae je tiyan nan.
Surah 56:32, And fruit in abundance.,To yangici sunsunzhi nan dokun nan.
Surah 56:33 ,  Whose season is not limited nor (supply) forbidden,Ujin yan naa ba naa a maa la'u kan'aa.
Surah 56:34 ,And on Thrones (of Dignity) raised high.,To yantacizhi nanzhiy la tu nan.
Surah 56:35,  We have created (their Companions) of special creation.,Akika Yi ga jin'ao jin jin nan yi wangi nan.
Surah 56:36 ,And made them virgin - pure (and undefiled) -,Yi ciga'la fe yantsugizhi.
Surah 56:37 ,Beloved (by nature) equal in age-,Nanzhi yebo ebaazhi sarawyin nan a ma yi yezun nan.
Surah 56:38, For the Companions of the Right Hand.,Ebo zaba gwalo zhio.
Surah 56:39,  A (goodly) number from those of old,A dukun fi mini za mafari zhio.
Surah 56:40 , And a (goodly) number from those of later times.,A ma ke'dokun fi mini za zunmazhio.
Surah 56:41   , The Companions of the Left Hand- what will be the Companions of the Left Hand,To zaba gwapin zhi ki'imaala za ba gwapinzhi wu wyo yao
Surah 56:42  ,(They will be) in the midst of a Fierce Blast of Fire and in Boiling Water,A fi mini efe nan wonan da iyaka na ganni be nuwan gbingbinciy.
Surah 56:43  ,And in the shades of Black Smoke:,To wuru dagan enawu zhiko.
Surah 56:44   ,Nothing (will there be) to refresh nor to please:,U fu ye koa Umae kan igidia.
Surah 56:45,    For that they were wont to be indulged before that in wealth (and luxury),Akika afe zanazhiy emawo yan izhe U gaa la dan yegboro bo nan.
Surah 56:46   , And persisted obstinately in wickedness supreme!,A maafe za nanzhi a tu ta eti zunubi wancikozhio nan.
Surah 56:47 ,       And they used to say "What! when we die and become dust and bones shall we then indeed be raised up again-,Amaajin a fe gan gan: Ngbayi ga tsu cia zhe jikanan be tsukun'y ngba a ga yi san tin ya wo be
Surah 56:47  ,      And they used to say "What! when we die and become dust and bones shall we then indeed be raised up again-,Amaajin a fe gan gan: Ngbayi ga tsu cia zhe jikanan be tsukun'y ngba a ga yi san tin ya wo be
Surah 56:48 ,"(We) and our fathers of old",Kashiy to yanmanci yizhi nanzhi yi za mafarizhi nan (aga atso san ma).
Surah 56:49 ,  Say: "Yea those of old and those of later times,Gan gan: Akika to za mafarizhi to za zunmazhi.
Surah 56:50  ,  "All will certainly be gathered together for the meeting appointed for a Day well-known.,Agae kuyekan kpatae lo efo nan yi be lokaci kpikpeciy nan.
Surah 56:51,    "Then will ye truly- O ye that go wrong and treat (Truth) as Falsehood!-,Gancin ye eza gbingbincizhi nanzhiy yi ganmanan zuncizhi nan.
Surah 56:52,    "Ye will surely taste of the Tree of Zaqqum.,Akika yea gi yan dagan mini cigban yan zakumuo.
Surah 56:53  ,"Then will ye fill your insides therewith,Ye ciga gbakoezhi she be'u yin pin nyin.
Surah 56:54 ,  "And drink Boiling Water on top of it:,Gancin ye cia fin nuwan gbin gbinci ta eti' ubo.
Surah 56:55,  "Indeed ye shall drink like diseased camels raging with thirst!",Yecia fe fin'u fin fin-fin yan za nan nunwo dan be yin de de nan.
Surah 56:56  , Such will be their entertainment on the Day of Requital!,Nan nan ga yi ecinba efo egagbao.
Surah 56:57 ,  It is We Who have created you: why will ye not witness the Truth,Yi ga jin alitta ye yeo kiy la yeci ya gaskiyaa yin'o
Surah 56:58,  Do ye then see- The (human Seed) that ye throw out-,Kashiy Ye le maniy nan ye la tin ya nan yea
Surah 56:59  ,  Is it ye who create it or are We the Creators,Ye gae jin alitta wun'o kashiy Yi jin wun'o
Surah 56:60    ,  We have decreed Death to be your common lot and We are not to be frustrated,Yi ga kpa ajali tsakani yebo Yi ma'a ye gan gwa'a.
Surah 56:61    ,    from changing your Forms and creating you (again) in (forms) that ye know not.,Eti egwasan yan ye be dozhin 'ezhi Yiciy ga ye jin dan mini yandoci nan ka atso kpea nan.
Surah 56:62 ,    And ye certainly know already the first form of creation: why then do ye not celebrate His praises,Akika ma yetso kpe e caba yan alittaye ye ki-jin ye cie santu a yan'o
Surah 56:63,  See ye the seed that ye sow in the ground,Kashiy ye le enu nan ye nu nan yea
Surah 56:64  ,  Is it ye that cause it to grow or are We the Cause,Ye gae nyin'u tinydo kashi Yi ye'oyin wun'o
Surah 56:65   ,  Were it Our Will We could crumble it to dry powder and ye would be left in wonderment,U ga ba yi ba Yi ga finiuzhi la'a fe wiwo ci (wun'ade anfania) gancin yecia fe jin mamaki.
Surah 56:65 ,    Were it Our Will We could crumble it to dry powder and ye would be left in wonderment,U ga ba yi ba Yi ga finiuzhi la'a fe wiwo ci (wun'ade anfania) gancin yecia fe jin mamaki.
Surah 56:66 ,(Saying) "We are indeed left with debts (for nothing):,(Yecia fe gan gan): Akika a yi dan'du yi cia fe gbataci zhi.
Surah 56:67  ,"Indeed are we shut out (of the fruits of our labour)",A'a a de'a yi kan anfani yan lati yn de.
Surah 56:68  , See ye the water which ye drink,Kashiy ye le nuwan nan ye fin nan yeaSurah 56:69      Do ye bring it down (in rain) from the cloud or do WeNgba ye ga du'u zhin dagan shishi'ubo kashiy Yi tsa du'u zhin'o
Surah 56:70     ,Were it Our Will We could make it salt (and unpalatable): then why do ye not give thanks,U ga ba Yi ba Yi ga'u laafe ke esan esan nan. Ki la ye cie jin yeboa yin'o
Surah 56:71 ,  See ye the Fire which ye kindle,Kashiy ye cin ena na ye gun nan lea
Surah 56:72   ,  Is it ye who grow the tree which feeds the fire or do We grow it,Ngba Ye ga ca jin jin yan cigban wun'o Kashi Yi jin wun'o
Surah 56:73    ,We have made it a memorial (of Our handiwork) and an article of comfort and convenience for the denizens of deserts.,Yi ga la'u cia fe sinsantuo be eyan emawo'a ya Za nanzhie za kpe eti kinbo nao
.Surah 56:74   ,Then celebrate with praises the name of thy Lord the Supreme!,Ebo acin'o fe li sunna yan Tsoci wye nan yi Etsu cinwan nan tsatsa yin.
Surah 56:75,   Furthermore I call to witness the setting of the Stars-,U ma jin gan sai Miga zhi kuti be ecinba yan tswangizhi yin'a.
Surah 56:76,    And that is indeed a mighty adjuration if ye but knew-,Akika ma wuncin kutizhi u yio nan wancin nan amma'ye ga kpe nan.
Surah 56:77 , That this is indeed a qur´an Most Honourable,Akika Alkuranu u yio nan wancin nan.
Surah 56:78 , In Book well-guarded,Fi mini Litafi nan yi eyan tswitswaci nan.
Surah 56:79   ,Which none shall touch but those who are clean:,Ade za na'a la gwa tu'u na'a sai dai zananzhi ga yizalilicizhi nan.
Surah 56:80,   A Revelation from the Lord of the Worlds.,Eyan cin cin ci u yio dagan eba Etsu nae kpa alittazhi kpata nan.
Surah 56:81 ,  Is it such a Message that ye would hold in light esteem,Ngba egan nan nan ga ye ye gba yeo
Surah 56:82  , And have ye made it your livelihood that ye should declare it false,Yicia arziki ye la'afe gan akika ye ga'u dza ganmanan
Surah 56:83,   Then why do ye not (intervene) when (the soul of the dying man) reaches the throat-,Ki la kaminan rayi gaatun robo nan .
Surah 56:84  ,And ye the while (sit) looking on-,Kanga yecia fe cinbale gancin.
Surah 56:85   ,   But We are nearer to him than ye and yet see not-,Yi ma tsoba'u gan ye ammade ye ye le ye'a.
Surah 56:86 ,   Then why do ye not- If you are exempt from (future) account-,Ki lao wun'ayi gan ye yea fe za nanzhiy a woa gbata'a nao.
Surah 56:87,   Call back the soul if ye are true (in the claim of independence),Yea (rayi) ye lazhin'y wun'a yi eza gaskiyazhi ye yio nan.
Surah 56:88  ,  Thus then if he be of those Nearest to Allah,Amma'de de uga fe dan mini za tsonbazhio.
Surah 56:89   ,(There is for him) Rest and Satisfaction and a Garden of Delights.,Akika a ga fe fi mini efao ganni be arziki wangiy be emi aljanna yan ni'imae.
Surah 56:90,     And if he be of the Companions of the Right Hand,Ammaa u ga' fe dan mini zabagwalozhio.
Surah 56:91  ,  (For him is the salutation) "Peace be unto thee" from the Companions of the Right Hand.,Aminci yan Soko u lau jin tabbata'u ya wye dan mini zaba gwa lwozhio.
Surah 56:92 ,    And if he be of those who treat (Truth) as Falsehood who go wrong,Ammaa uga fe dan mini ganmanan zuncizhio nanzhiy yi eza egbin zhi nan.
Surah 56:93  ,For him is Entertainment with Boiling Water.,Ecinba'u dan mini nuwan gbingbin-cio.Surah 56:94 And burning in Hell-Fire.Be gingandan yan ena jahimuy.
Surah 56:95,    Verily this is the Very Truth and Certainly.,Akika nannan ga yi gaskiya yan baenio.
Surah 56:96   ,So celebrate with praises the name of thy Lord the Supreme.,Ebo acin'o fe li sunna yan Tsoci wye nan wancin nan tsa tsa yin.
