
"EWUCE DAGA FITI O" yi kukuyeka nya ayazi nya Rubutu Lilici eti ega woncinko ndocizi o daga dana titititi nimi Bible bo. Mi ayakpe ke eyekpe nya Rubutu Lilici yi ega nya Bible otso na. Ega nya Soko fe "daga fiti o" be ci yi bibajinre woncinko ya nyagban nazi egun mada ci ewo nuwon nya eli gasikiya na. Kami na eza ejin tuba,
ci kega be lefi nyi, ci eyi Tsoci Jesu Kristi na Wun a be fedun da nyagban u bo, ci yakpe Tsoci Jesu Kristi ke Zabolugwa na be nyagban u kpata nyi na, Tsoci a la nimi U tula ya u, ci la ninma to mawo da nimi nyagban nya egagoci ga o. Mi go wuncin nimi 1937 bo, to hari be nyina nyi a la de enya ndondo na nyi emapa wangi nana na mi de be Tsoci nyi na a. Kaga wo la go Jesu le a, mi eta wo gwa na we a go U GBANI ke Zabolugwa to Tsoci nya we na.

“Help From Above” is a collection of related verses of Scripture by subjects from various parts of the Bible. I believe the best commentary on Scripture is the Bible itself.
God’s Word comes “from above” and is indeed very helpful to hearts that hunger and thirst after righteousness. When a person repents, forsakes sin, invites the Lord Jesus Christ to dwell in his heart, and believes with all his heart on the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, the Lord will manifest Himself to him and impart His own joy and peace to the believer’s heart. I experienced this in 1937 and have enjoyed wonderful fellow- ship with the Lord ever since. I urge you to surrender to Him as your Savior and Lord NOW if you have not done so already.
—Watson Goodman (1920-2002)

CINCIN NYA SOKO

Romicizi 5:8

Ama Soko la cincin u tula ya yi, nimi nana o, kami na yi yi lefijinci- zi na, Kristi tsu ebo yi bo.

John 13:1

Kami na a la la sala nya zunga a ną, kami na Jesu kpeteke kami u tun ani na, na wun a dzun yize ana o, da 'ba Nda na, ebo na u yebo eza uzi nazi fi nimi yize o na, u yebo a hari da etizo.

Elatu 1:5

1

wun na yebo yi na, ci la yi loya eba lefi yizi o be egia u nyi.

John 15:13

Eza ndondo de cincin na ga nana na a, na eza a la rayi u şişi ebo eya uzi o na a.

John 3:16

Gama Soko yebo yize tun aciņ, na u la Egimaci nini kete u ya u na, ebo eza ndondo na a yakpe u na, wun a gbin a, ama wun a de rayi hari lo.

Jeremiah 31:3

Daga panyi o Tsoci be 'ba mi, ga, Akika, mi cin we be cincin nyi nya hari lo: ebogabo be cetocincin- ci nyi mi din we nyagban o.

To daga eba Jesu Kristi o, wun na yi erijinci amincideci na, eza na a ma mafari nimi ezatsutsucizi o ną, to tisi nya etsuzi nya yize. Ya



But God demonstrates His own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. —Romans 5:8
Now before the feast of the Pass- over, when Jesus knew that His hour had come that He should de- part from this world to the Fa- ther, having loved His own who were in the world, He loved them to the end. —John 13:1
“Greater love has no one than this, than to lay down one’s life for his friends.” —John 15:13
And from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler over the kings of the earth. To Him
who loved us and washed us from our sins in His own blood.
—Revelation 1:5
“For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have ever-
THE LOVE OF GOD 1
lasting life.”
The Lord has ap- peared of old to me, saying: “Yes, I have loved you with an everlast- ing love; therefore with lovingkind- ness I have drawn you.”
—Jeremiah 31:3


JESU KRISTI VI SOKO
3:50

..ll LTE

CINCIN NYA SOKO

1

Romicizi 5:8

Ama Soko la cincin u tula ya yi, nimi nana o, kami na yi yi lefijinci- zi na, Kristi tsu ebo yi bo.

John 13:1

Kami na a la la sala nya zunga a na, kami na Jesu kpeteke kami u tun ani na, na wun a dzun yize ana o, da 'ba Nda na, ebo na u yebo eza uzi nazi fi nimi yize o na, u yebo a hari da etizo.

Elatu 1:5

To daga eba Jesu Kristi o, wun na yi erijinci amincideci na, eza na a ma mafari nimi ezatsutsucizi o na, to tisi nya etsuzi nya yize. Ya

2

1 Timoti 3:16

To bambe emigbo nyi, enya- susoci nya gbigba Soko woncin; Wun na atula nimi naka o na, wun ali nimi ruhu o, malayikazi le u ye, a jin wazun nya u tatacin eza kinzi o, a yakpe u nimi yize o, a go u da 'fin nimi cinwon o.

John 1:1 to 14

Nimi mafari o Ega ga da bo, Ega ga da be Soke nyi, Ega ga So- ko u yi o.... Ega ga be aze naka, u ci fedun da tatacin yi bo, (yi ma le cinwon u ye, cinwon u yi ke egimaci nini kete nya Nda na), u şe be mana nyi, to be gasikiya nyi.

THE DEITY OF JESUS CHRIST
And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifested in the flesh, justi- fied in the Spirit, seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles, be- lieved on in the world, received up in glory. —1 Timothy 3:16
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. And the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, . . . full of grace and truth.
—John 1:1 and 14
Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled which was spo- ken by the Lord through the prophet, saying: “Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and bear a
Son, and they shall call His name Immanuel,” which is translated, “God with us.” —Matthew 1:22, 23
“I and My Father are one.” —John 10:30
Jesus said to him, “Have I been with you so long, and yet you have not known Me, Philip? He who has seen Me has seen the Father; so how can you say, ‘Show us the Father?’ Do you not believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in Me? The words that I speak to you I do not speak on My own authority; but the Father who dwells in Me does the works.” —John 14:9, 10

JESU EGI NYA SOKO

1 John 4:15

Eza ndondo na a ye, ke Jesu yi Egi nya Soko na, Soko efedun da nimi u bo, to nwi nimi Soko o.

Luke 1:35

Malayika gomi ga ya u, ga, Ru- hu Lilici a cin kpe we, to yiko nya Wun na wun Cinwon Kpata na a ce kpe we: ebogabo egi na we a ma na, a a yi u lilici, Egi nya Soko.

Mattiu 3:17

Cinle, emi ndoci daga sama o, ga, Nana yi Egi cincinci mi, na ba mi gaya na.

Isaiah 9:6

Gamasi a ma 'gi ya yi, a la egi bagi ya yi; yikunci a ta ekpa u bo: a a yi suna u Enyayekaci, Shawu-

wun na yebo yi na, ci la yi loya eba lefi yizi o be egia u nyi.

John 15:13 Eza ndondo de cincin na ga

nana na a, na eza a la rayi u şişi

ebo eya uzi o na a.

John 3:16

Gama Soko yebo yize tun aciņ, na u la Egimaci nini kete u ya u na, ebo eza ndondo na a yakpe u na, wun a gbin a, ama wun a de rayi hari lo.

Jeremiah 31:3

Daga panyi o Tsoci be 'ba mi, ga, Akika, mi cin we be cincin nyi nya hari lo: ebogabo be cetocincin- ci nyi mi din we nyagban o.
ever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. —1 John 4:15
And the angel answered and said to her, “The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Highest will overshadow you; therefore, also, that Holy One who is to be born will be called the Son of God.” —Luke 1:35
For unto us a Child is born, un- to us a Son is given; and the government will be upon His shoulder. And His name will be called Wonderful, Coun- selor, Mighty God,
Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. —Isaiah 9:6
While he was still speaking, be- hold, a bright cloud overshad- owed them; and suddenly a voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is My beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear Him!”
—Matthew 17:5 He answered and said, “Who is He, Lord, that I may believe in Him?” And Jesus said to him “You have both seen Him [the Son of God] and it is He who is talking with you.” —John 9:36, 37 For in Him [Christ Jesus] dwells all the fullness of the God- head bodily. —Colossians 2:9
JESUS THE SON OF GOD

JESU KRISTI YI SOKO

Mattiu 1:22, 23

Enya anazi kpata be atsa, na ega ga atsa na Tsoci ga be misun nyi nya anabi na, ci ga, Cinle, nyantsugi a de 'won, wun a ma 'gi bagi, A ma a yi kaye u Immanuel; na a la u zeba na, wuncin yi, Soko da be yi nyi.

John 10:30 Mi to Nda mi yi nini.

John 14:9, 10a

Jesu ga ya u, ga, Na mi da be ye nyi kun ani na, wo kpe mi ye a, Filipu? eza na le mi ye na, u le Nda ye; ke jin we ci ga, La Nda wu yi o? Wo yakpe, ga, mi da nimi Nda o, to Nda da nimi mi bo a?

3

rajinci, Soko Kagboci, Nda dam- bodaci, Etsu nya Lafiya.

Mattiu 17:5

Kami na wun egaga na, cinle, para nya sama na ebana na, wuru u ace kpe a: cinle, emi ndoci daga para ga o, ga, Nana yi Egi cincinci mi, na ba mi gaya na; ye wo 'ga u.

John 9:37

Jesu ga... Wo le u ye ani (Egi nya Soko), u ma yi wun na egaga

be we nyi na.

Kolosicizi 2:9

Gamaşi nimi u bo (Kristi Jesu) şişe kpata nya Soko afedun nimi naka gunguru o.
3:50

..| LTE

JESU TA YA YI EZA NA U YI NA

wun a gunmada be a, to eza na a

John 8:23 to 58 Uga ya a, ga, Ye yi nya tako; mi Jesu yi nya tifin: ye yi nya yize ana; mi yi nya yize ana a.... ga ya a, ga, Gasikiya, gasikiya, mi ga ya ye, ga, Kami na a la ma Ibrahima a na, mi da bo.

John 4:25, 26

Nyizagi ga ga ya u, ga, Mi ga, Mi yi yakun misun nya ega kpeteke Mesaya ebe na, (wun na a yi Kristi na): kami na u ga be na, wun a ta enya kpata ya yi. Jesu ga ya u, ga, Mi na egaga be we nyi ną, wunga o.

John 6:35

Jesu ga ya a, ga, Mi yi enyagici nya rayi: eza na a be 'ba mi nạ,

yakpe mi na, wun a wonuwon be a. Kami na mi da nimi yize o ną,

John 9:5

mi yi bayetin nya yize.

John 10:7

Kanga Jesu ga ya a be, ci ga,

Gasikiya, gasikiya, mi ga ya ye,

John 11:25

kingbagba. Jesu ga ya u, gạ, Mi yi kinna to

John 13:13

JESUS TELLS US WHO HE IS
And He said to them, “You are from beneath; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world.” Jesus said to them, “Most assuredly, I say to you, be- fore Abraham was, I AM.”
—John 8:23 and 58 The woman said to Him, “I know that Messiah is coming” (who is called Christ). “When He comes, He will tell us all things.” Jesus said to her, “I who speak to you am He.” —John 4:25, 26 And Jesus said to them, “I am the bread of life. He who comes to Me shall never hunger, and he who believes in Me shall never thirst.” —John 6:35 As long as I am in the world, I
am the light of the world.”
—John 9:5
Then Jesus said to them again, “Most assuredly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.”
—John 10:7 Jesus said to her, “I am the res- urrection and the life. He who be- lieves in Me, though he may die, he shall live.” —John 11:25 “You call Me Teacher and Lord,
and you say well, for so I am.” —John 13:13
 

ENYA YEKA NDOCIZI NAZI JESU JIN NA

rayi: eza na yakpe mi na, ka u ga atsu, wun a de rayi. Ye yi mi Malam, to Tsoci: ye ma ga u ge; gama acinga mi yi o.

Luke 5:5, 6

5

Simon gomi ga ya u, ga, Tsoci, yi lotun yeşi kpata, yi ma wọn enya ndondo a: ama ebo ega 'o bo mi a ce esazi o. Kami na u jin acin kangizi. na, a won nyika na dokun na; esa azi ela te.

na, u ci şe kasa guwo be o guba nyi. Eza nazi gi 'nya na, a yi ke bagizi eza gboba be kpotsun nyi ną, bambe nyizagizi nyi to dza-

Mattiu 20:30 to 32b-34

Ciņle, bagi guba yeboncizi a efe- dun zi yeko kapa o, kami na a wo ga Jesu egoga na, a kpogun ga, Tsoci, wo egi nya Dawuda gun yi ye. Kanga Jesu gikinni ci... ga, Ke ye wa ga mi jin ya ye o? A gạ ya u, ga, Tsoci, na yi a le 'ba ye na. Acin Jesu, ebo na u gun a ye na, u lagwakun eye azi: edaga o, a le 'ba ye, a ci lamitu u.

Mattiu 14:19-21

U ga ya eza kama, ga, a fedun zizi eti ego o; u ci la bread gutsun, to nyika guba gazi, u cin sama le, u ci la alubarika da a, u ci la a sa, u ci la bread gazi ya ezazunma uzi, ezazunma uzi a la ya eza kama. A gi 'nya a ci afunin kpata: a ci ku enya na ke nya enyagici na u sa
SOME MIRACLES JESUS DID 5
Then He commanded the mul- titudes to sit down on the grass. And He took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, He blessed and broke and gave the loaves to the disci- ples; and the disciples gave to the multitudes. So they all ate and were filled, and they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments that remained. Now those who had eaten were a- bout five thousand men, be- sides women and children.
—Matthew 14:19-21 But Simon answered and said to Him, “Master, we have toiled all night and caught nothing; nevertheless at Your word I will
let down the net.” And when they had done this, they caught a great number of fish, and their net was breaking.
—Luke 5:5, 6 And behold, two blind men sit- ting by the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, saying, “Have mer- cy on us, O Lord, Son Of David!” So Jesus . . . said, “What do you want Me to do for you?” They said to Him, “Lord, that our eyes may be opened.” So Jesus had compassion and touched their eyes. And immediately their eyes received sight, and
they followed Him.
—Matthew 20:30 and 32b-34

6

JESU KRISTI YI JINJINCI TO TSOCI

Efasuscizi 3:9b Soko o, na jin enya kpata na.

Kolosicizi 1:16 Gamaşi nimi u bo a jin enya kpata o, nimi samazi o, to eti kin bo, enya nazi a leye na, to enya na- zi ye leye a na, ko u fe etsugicizio, ko sarotazi, ko cinwoncizi, ko eza yikuncizi; enya kpata ajin be egwa u nyi, to ebo u bo.

John 1:3

U jin enya kpata o; to bambe u nyi enya ndondo da bo e wun jin a gubaba. nyi a.

Hibrucizi 1:2

Soko... zunma efo wunciņzi o u gaga ya yi be emisun nyi nya Egi

u, na u la şişi egungici nya enya kpata na, u ma jin kamizi be egwa u nyi.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 2:36

Ebogabo lugwa emi kpata nya Israel kpe u ye saranyi, ga, Soko la u jin Tsoci to Kristi gubaba, Jesu nana na ye la ka ba ebu o na.

Romicizi 14:9 Gamaşi ebo wuncin o Kristi tsu, ci de rayi be, na u ga aze Tsoci nya ezatsutsucizi to nya rayidecizi na

1 Korinticizi 1:9 Soko de aminci, u ma yi be egwa u nyi na a yi ye be lo emapa nya Egi u Jesu Kristi Tsoci yi na.
3:50

JESUS CHRIST IS CREATOR AND LORD
God who created all things through Jesus Christ.
—Ephesians 3:9b For by Him all things were cre- ated that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created through Him and for
Him. —Colossians 1:16 All things were made through Him, and without Him nothing
was made that was made.
—John 1:3
And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
—Philippians 2:11
God . . . has in these last days spoken to us by His Son, whom He has appointed heir of all things, through whom also He made the worlds. —Hebrews 1:1a, 2
“Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ.”
—Acts 2:36
For to this end Christ died and rose and lived again, that He might be Lord of both the dead and the living. —Romans 14:9
God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
—1 Corinthians 1:9
..| LTE

JESU KRISTI YI ALIKALI NYA EZA KPATA 7

Romicizi 14:10 Ama we, ebokinyabo we ejin yegi we șiriya o? to we be, ebokin- yabo we egba yegi we ye o? gama- şi yi kpata a be gikinni yita esa şiriya nya Soko o.

2 Timoti 4:1

Mi gaga ya we yita Soko o, to nyą Kristi Jesu, wun na a jin rayi- decizi to 'zatsutsucizi șiriya na, to be dzundzun be u' nyi to sarota u.

Mattiu 25:31, 32 Kami na Egi nya eza a be be

cinwon u nyi na, to malayikazi kpata be unyi, kanga wun a fedun ta esadunfe 'tsu nya cinwon u bo: eza wangizi kpata a ga ayeka yita u bo: wun a ke a ga be dozi nyi,

8

John 10:9

Mi yi yakun misun o: wun ayike

eza ndondo a gada nimi mi bo na, a a bo u ya, wun a fe gada, fe dzun, fe de'nya gi.

John 14:6

Jesu ga ya u, ga, Mi yi yeko, to gasikiya, to rayi: eza ndondo a tun

'ba Nda a, afe be mi nyi.

John 8:24

atsu da nimi lefi yezi o: gama ka- ga ye yakpe ga, mi u yi a, ye ga at. su da nimi lefi yezi o.

nyi na.

Hibrucizi 7:25 Ebogabo u de yiko na

Biboya ma da nimi eza ndoci bo a: gama kaye ndoci da nimi yize o wun a bo be a, na a la ya eza wangizi na a bo ezazi ya hari hari, eza nazi eyeba yi ya na a.

1 Korinticizi 1:30 Ama nya nwi ye yi o nimi Kristi

Jesu o, na aze yema ya yi daga eba Soko o na, to eli gasikiya to eli lili- ci, to wuzisa.

Taitus 2:14 Wun na la nimi u twaria ebo yi bo na, na wun a la yi sa eba eli dede o kpata na, ci la ezazi li ya wuntso ebo sarota u bo, eza nazi de aniya nya etun wangizi na.

Efasuscizi 5:1

Ebogabo, ye sa Soko ye ke egi cincincizi na.

Kolosicizi 1:12-14 Ye ci fe jin yebo Nda, na la yi ze eza nazi akunye na yi a pama gani

kendona enakaci eke kingbagbazi gą be bikungizi nyi na.

John 5:22

Gama Nda ejin eza ndondo siri- ya a, ama u la şiriya kpata da Egi gwa o.

Romicizi 2:16

Nimi efo ga o, kami na Soko a jin enyasusocizi nya eza wangizi șiriya be Jesu Kristi nyi na, gangani be labari wangi mi nyi.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 10:42

U ta ya yi, ga, yi jin wazun ya ezazi, yi jin eri ya a, ke nana yi eza ga na Soko tsa ci la jin Alikali nya rayidecizi to nya ezatsutsucizi o na.

JESUS CHRIST IS JUDGE OF ALL 7
 But why do you judge your brother? Or why do you show con- tempt for your brother? For we shall all stand before the judge- ment seat of Christ. —Romans 14:10
I charge you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at His appearing and His kingdom. —2 Timothy 4:1
“When the Son of Man comes in His glory, and all the holy angels with Him, then He will sit on the throne of His glory. All the na- tions will be gathered before Him, and he will separate them one from another, as a shepherd divides his sheep from the goats.”
—Matthew 25:31-32
“For the Father judges no one, but has commit- ted all judgment to the Son.”
—John 5:22
In the day when God will judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ, according to my gospel.
—Romans 2:16
“And He commanded us to preach to the people, and to testi- fy that it is He who was ordained by God to be Judge of the living and the dead.” —Acts 10:42

WUZISA YI BE KRISTI NYI GBAUGI

Soko be bicita u nyi na, daga na u

fe da bo hari lo na wun a tagwa ebo a bo na.

Hibrucizi 5:9

To na wun agunmi na, wun aze asali nya biboya hari lo ya eza kpata nazi gba 'ga u na.

Romicizi 3:24

A la a li efia be mana u nyi na yi Ebogabo mi ga ya ye, ga, Ye ga be sisa nyi na da be Kristi Jesu

Etun Nya Tuncizi 4:12

REDEMPTION ONLY THROUGH CHRIST
“I am the door. If anyone enters by Me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture.”
—John 10:9 Jesus said to him, “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through Me.” —John 14:6 “Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins; for if you do not believe that I am He, you will die in your sins.” —John 8:24 And having been perfected, He became the author of eternal sal-
vation to all who obey Him. —Hebrews 5:9
For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, being justified freely by His grace
through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. —Romans 3:23, 24 Therefore He is also able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through Him, since He ever lives to make intercession
for them.
—Hebrews 7:25
 “Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved.” —Acts 4:12
For God did not appoint us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ.
—1 Thessalonians 5:9

WUZISA YI BE KRISTI NYI GBAUGI

9

be eza lilicizi nyi nimi egungi nya bayetin o na; wun na la yi wa dzun eba yikunci nya baziko o, ci la yi mu da sarota nya Egi nya cincin u na; nimi u bo yi de sisa yi o, gafara nya lefi yizi.

Luke 19:10

Gama Egi nya eza u be na wun a wa za, to na wun a boya, enya na agbinka na.

Elatu 5:9

A ko eniko woro, ga, Wo kun na we a go litafi to na we a kpe erikpe uzi na: gama a la wo zun, wo ci și ezazi nya nanyici ndondo, to misun, to ezazi, to eza kin ndondo be egia we nyi ya Soko.
3:50
REDEMPTION ONLY THROUGH CHRIST 9
But of Him you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God—and righteousness and sanctification and redemption.
—1 Corinthians 1:30
Who gave Himself for us, that He might redeem us from every lawless deed and purify for Him- self His own special people, zeal- ous for good works. —Titus 2:14
Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partak- ers of the inheritance of the saints in the light. He has delivered us from the power of darkness and translated us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, in whom we have redemption through His
blood, the forgiveness of sins. —Colossians 1:12-14
“For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost.” —Luke 19:10
And they sang a new song, say- ing: “You are worthy to take the scroll, and to open its seals; for You were slain, and have re- deemed us to God by Your blood out of every tribe and tongue and people and nation.”
—Revelation 5:9 And walk in love, as Christ also has loved us and given Himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling aro-
ma. —Ephesians 5:2


EGIA NYA KRISTI ELA YI LI

.. LTE

10

Romicizi 5:9 Bele na dokun ga acin na, daga

na yi ali gbani ebo egia u bo na, a a bo yi ya eba fusi nya Soko o be egwa u nyi.

Efasuscizi 1:7

Nimi u bo yi de sisa nya yi be egia u nyi, gafara nya gbingbintu yizi, gangani be kundo nyi nya mana u.

Mattiu 26:28

Gama nana yi egia mi nya alika- woli, na mi la ze ya ebo gafara lefizi nya eza kama o na.

banza ye na ndako yezi la ya ye na bo; ama be egia kunkunci nyi, ke nya kingbagbagigi na, na de lani to şiaka a na, wuncin yi egia nya Kristi.

1 Piteru 1:18, 19

Bele egia nya Kristi, wun na la nimi u twaria bambe lani nyi nimi Ruhu o nya hari lo na ya Šoko, u ga la aniya yezi li be etun tsutsu- cizi nyi ye ci be wun Soko Rayide- azarufa nyi ko zanariya, eba zizi ci na o?

1 John 1:7

Ama wun ayike yi ga dazą da nimi bayetin o na, kendoną u da nimi bayetin o na, yi epama gani be dozi nyi, to egia nya Jesu Egi u ela yi li be lefi nyi kpata.

Hibrucizi 9:14

Daga na ye kpeteke a la ye sa na, e be enya nyinyicizi nyi a, be

THE ATONEMENT OF CHRIST’S BLOOD
Much more then, having now been justified by His blood, we shall be saved from wrath through Him. —Romans 5:9
In Him we have redemption through His blood, the forgive- ness of sins, according to the riches of His grace.
—Ephesians 1:7 “For this is My blood of the new covenant, which is shed for
many for the remission of sins.” —Matthew 26:28 Knowing that you were not re- deemed with corruptible things, like silver or gold, from your aim-
less conduct received by tradition from your fathers, but with the
precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and with- out spot. —1 Peter 1:18, 19
But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ His Son cleanses us from all sin. —1 John 1:7
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without spot to God, purge your con- science from dead works to serve the living God? —Hebrews 9:14
We also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. —Romans 5:11b

BIBOYA BE YIYAKPE NYI NIMI KRISTI O 11

Efasuscizi 2:8, 9 Gama be mana nyi u bo ye ya o ną. be yiyakpe nyi; u yi nya ye a; u yi eriatwa nya Soko: u yi nya etunzi a, ebo eza ndondo ga ta cinwon mạ.

Romicizi 5:1

Ebogabo, daga na yi ali ebo yi- yakpe o na, lugwa yi womą be Soko nyi be egwa Tsoci yi nyi Jesu Kristi.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 16:31 A ga, Yakpe Tsoci Jesu, wun a bo we ya, wotso, to eza 'mi wezi.

John 6:28, 29

Kanga a ga ya u, ga, Ke yi a jin jin na yi a lo etunzi nya Soko na o? Jesu gomi ga ya a, ga, Etun Soko

dana, ga, ye yakpe eza na u tun be

Galatiacizi 5:6

Gamaşi nimi Kristi Jesu o eba- zun ko ebadun de anfani ndondo a; ama sayi yiyakpe na elotun be cincin nyi ną.

1 John 5:4

Gama eza ndondo na Soko ma na, u de nasara eti yize o: nasara ma na yi de eti yize o na dana, yi- yakpe nya yi.

John 20:31

Ama a ka nanazi, na ye a yakpe, ga, Jesu yi Kristi, Egi nya Soko na; to na ye eyakpe na, acin ye a de rayi nimi kaye u bo.

12

SALVATION BY FAITH IN CHRIST 11
For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God, not of works, lest anyone should boast. —Ephesians 2:8, 9
Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
—Romans 5:1
For in Christ Jesus neither cir- cumcision nor uncircumcision avails anything, but faith work- ing through love. —Galatians 5:6
“Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved ....” —Acts 16:31b
For whatever is born of God
overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world—our faith. —1 John 5:4
Then they said to Him, “What shall we do, that we may work the works of God?” Jesus answered and said to them, “This is the work of God, that you believe in Him whom He sent.”
—John 6:28, 29
But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing you may have life in His name.
—John 20:31

YEGUN NYA SOKO

Zabura 103:11, 17 Gamasi kendona sama keto be

kin nyi na, Acinga ma yegun u do- kun ya a nazi sunda u na....Ama yegun nya Tsoci da bo yi bo da re ya a nazi sunda u na, To eli gasiki ya u ma da bo ya yagiyagizi.

Egiti 3:22, 23

U yi ebo yegun nya Tsoci na yi yi da bo na, gamasi yegun uzi ezo a. A yi woro lazin ndondo; aminci we dokun re.

Micah 7:18

Ze yi Soko ke we na o? na ejin gafara lefi, ci ego gamigbintu ga nya eza tukungi nya egun u na o?

wun ejin fushi u hari lo a, ebo na wun emanin be yegun nyi na.

2 Korinticizi 1:3

Alubarika da be Soko nyi.. Nda nya yegunzi to Soko nya nyagbanfa kpata.

Zabura 108:4

Gamasi yegun we keto ga sama- zi, Gasikiya we ma tun hari sama- zi.

Taitus 3:5

U yi be etunzi nyi nazi a lo nimi eli gasikiya o na, nazi yitso lo na a, ama gangani be yegun u nyi u bo yi ya, be nina nyi nya yiyemą to yiyejin woro nya Ruhu Lilici.
3:51

GOD’S MERCY
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort. —2 Corinthians 1:3
Who is a God like You, pardon- ing iniquity and passing over the transgression of the remnant of His heritage? He does not retain His anger forever, because He delights in mercy. —Micah 7:18
For Your mercy is great above the heavens, and Your truth reach- es to the clouds. —Psalm 108:4
Through the LORD’s mercies we are not consumed, because His compassions fail not. They are new
every morning; great is Your faith- fulness. —Lamentations 3:22, 23 For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is His mercy toward those who fear Him. But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear Him, and His righteousness to children’s chil- dren. —Psalm 103:11, 17
Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but accord- ing to His mercy He saved us, through the washing of regenera- tion and renewing of the Holy Spirit. —Titus 3:5

SOKO EYI YI NA YI A BE 'BA U NA

Isaiah 1:18

.I LTE

Ye be gbani, lugwa yi jin sawura be dozi nyi: gama ka zunubi yezi yi dzuru otso, a ga avun bokun ke snow na; ka a adzu kpayi otso, a ga ajin ke enyi kingbagba na.

Elatu 22:17

Ruhu to yawo ga, Be. To eza na wo na, lugwa u ga, Be. To eza na nuwon ewo na, lugwa u be: to eza na ewa na, lugwa u to nuwon nya rayi efia.

Isaiah 55:1

Ho, eza ndondo na ewonuwon na, ye da be 'ba nuwon, to eza na de ewo a na; ye be, ye si 'nya, ye ci gi 'nya; akika, be, ye be si wine to

13

mandara bambe ewo nyi, to bam-

be ewodatu nyi. Efo zunmago, efo woncinko nya

John 7:37

sala, Jesu gikinni ci kpogun, ga, Wun ayike eza ndondo ewonuwon na, lugwa u be'ba mi, ci fin.

Marku 10:14

Ama kami na Jesu le wuncin ye na, wun asun nyagban saranyi, u ci ga ya a, ga, Lugwa dzakangizi be 'ba mi; ga ka a ma: gama sarota nya Soko u yi nya dozi azi.

Mattiu 11:28 Ye be 'ba mi, ye kpata nazi elotun to nazi de kara na lukpin ną, mi a ya ye efa.

GOD INVITES US TO COME TO HIM 13
“Come now, and let us rea- son together,” says the LORD, “Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall be as wool.”
—Isaiah 1:18 And the Spirit and the bride say, “Come!” And let him who hears say, “Come!” And let him who thirsts come. And whoever desires, let him take the water of life freely. —Revelation 22:17 “Ho! Everyone who thirsts, come to the waters; and you who have no money, come, buy and eat. Yes, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.” —Isaiah 55:1
On the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, “If anyone thirsts, let him come to Me and drink.”
—John 7:37
But when Jesus saw it, He was greatly displeased and said to them, “Let the lit-
tle children come
to Me, and do not forbid them; for of such is the kingdom of God.”
—Mark 10:14
“Come to Me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.” —Matthew 11:28

14 U YI EZA KPATA NAZI YI EGIZI NYA SOKO NA A

1 John 3:10

Nimi naną o egizi nya Soko atu- la, to egizi nya Ibili: eza ndondo na ejin eli gasikiya a na, u yi nya Soko a, to eza na yebo yegi wun a na.

Romicizi 8:14, 15

Gamaşi eza nazi Ruhu Soko edin gwa na, a gazi yi egizi nya Soko o. Gamaşi ye keze go ruhu nya wuzize be na ye a sunda na a; sayi nya lanjingi, be wuncin nyi yi yi u Abba, Nda.

Filipaicizi 2:15

Na ye a da bo bambe lefi nyi na, to sanyi, egizi nya Soko bambe

lani nyi tatacin eza kadazi to eza 'ti kagbocizi nya kami gbani o, a ci le ye ye da tatacin a bo ke asikezi na nimi yize o.

2 Korinticizi 6:17, 18

Ebogabo Tsoci ga, ye dzun be tatacin a bo, ye kpeya, ga lagwa- kun enya şika ma; kanga mi a go ye, mi ga afe Nda ya ye, ye ma ga afe egi bagizi to 'gi nyizagizi ya mi, acin Tsoci na wun Kagbo Kpa- ta na ga o.

John 1:12

Ama eza nazi go u na, a ci yakpe kaye u, u ya a yiko na a ga aze egizi nya Soko na.

NOT ALL PEOPLE ARE GOD’S CHILDREN
Jim Kalett/Photo Researchers
 In this the
less and harmless, children of God children of God
without fault in the midst of a and the children
crooked and perverse generation,
of the devil are
among whom you shine as lights in the world. —Philippians 2:15 manifest: Who-
ever does not
Therefore “Come out from a- practice right-
mong them and be separate, says eousness is not
the Lord. Do not touch what is of God, nor is
he who does not
unclean, and I will receive you. I love his brother.
—1 John 3:10
will be a Father to you and you For as many as are led by the
shall be My sons and daughters, Spirit of God, these are sons of
says the LORD Almighty.”
God. For you did not receive the
—2 Corinthians 6:17, 18
spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the Spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, “Abba, Father.” —Romans 8:14, 15
But as many as received Him, to them He gave the right to be- come children of God, even to those who believe in His name.
That you may become blame-
—John 1:12

ENYA NA SOKO EGA ETI NUWONFIN O NA

Galatiacizi 5:19-21

Gbani ana, etunzi nya naka atu- la, wuncinzi dana, siankala, eli şi- ka, enyayeda lefi, kutijin, enyama, ninavo, ewunsun, nyagbanlazi, fu- mą. şizi, tarikazi, kikegazi, enazi, ko- darizi, nuwonpe, edzo dedezi, to enya dozi wuncinzi: nya wuncinzi mi eta 'ga ya ye şişi, kendoną mi ta 'ga ya ye şişi le na, ga, eza nazi ejin enya dozi wuncinzi na a a gi- gun sarota nya Soko a.

sun nyi a, ko be nyagbanla nyi a. Ama ye la Tsoci Jesu Kristi fa, ye ga jin yeko ndondo ya naka cig- ban na ye a gba zaraba lefi uzi na

15

Isaiah 5:11

Wala da bo ya ezazi nazi esaka- sa nakin lazin na a a fin atana na; nazi fe da bo acin hari tun yesi sa- du na, hari wine la a pe!

Gacinzi 23:31, 32

Romicizi 13:13, 14 Lugwa yi dazą be eli gasikiya nyi, ke be yigidi nyi na; u yi be an- aşewa nyi a, u ma yi be nuwonpe nyi a, u yi be fadata nyi a, ko be eli bamvogi nyi a, u ma yi be ewun- gi na.

Wo ga cin wine le kami na wun ajin dzuru na ma, Kami na wo le etsa u ye nimi daro o na ma, Kami na wun ela nimi u sasa wangi na: Gamasi zunmago wun eko 'za nyi- ka ke ewa na, Ci etun 'za ke gbeje
3:51

16

WHAT GOD SAYS ABOUT STRONG DRINK 15
Now the works of the flesh are evident, which are: adultery, for- nication, uncleanness, licentious- ness, idolatry, sorcery, hatred, contentions, jealousies, outbursts of wrath, selfish, ambitions, dis- sensions, heresies, envy, murders, drunkenness, revelries, and the like; of which I tell you before- hand, just as I also told you in time past, that those who practice such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.—Galatians 5:19-21
Let us walk properly, as in the day, not in revelry and drunken- ness, not in licentiousness and lewdness, not in strife and envy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ,
and make no provision for the flesh, to fulfill its lusts.
—Romans 13:13, 14 Woe to those who rise early in the morning, that they may fol- low intoxicating drink; who con- tinue until night, till wine in- flames them! —Isaiah 5:11 Do not look on the wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup, when it swirls around smoothly; at the last it bites like a serpent,
and stings like a viper.
—Proverbs 23:31, 32
Wine is a mocker, intoxicating drink arouses brawling, and who- ever is led astray by it is not wise.
—Proverbs 2

ANIYA WANGI KUNA

Mattiu 22:37, 38

.. LTE

Jesu ga ya u, ga, We a yebo Tsoci Soko we be nyagban we nyi

kpata, to be yema we nyi kpata.

Gami nana şi a dzo u ma woncin

ga a.

ma, Ga jin boşi ma, La kunkun ya nda to nna we. ga ya u, ga, Malam, enya anazi kpata mi la- kpata, to be nyagbannin we nyi gwasun a daga dzakangi o. Na Jesu cin u le na, u yebo u, ci ga ya u, ga, Enya nini da bo na we de a na: da: da la enya ndondo na wo de na kun, wo ci 'o la ya yajincizi, we a de dukiya nimi sama o: wo ci 'o be lamitu mi. Eye u anu ebo ega ga o, ci da be nyagbanta nyi: gama u yi 'za eni na de dukiya nyasasanyi na.

Marku 10:17-22

Malam wangi, ke 'nya mi a jin ną mi a gi 'gun rayi hari lo na o? Jesu ga ya u, ga, Ebokinyabo we yi mi wangi o? eza ndondo da bo na yi wangi na a, afe nini kete, wunga yi Soko o. Wo kpe gamizi ye, Ga wu 'za ma, Ga danyaci ma, Ga yi 'nya ma, Ga zun gamana

Gacinzi 16:25

Yeko da bo na eza ekpaye ke u yi wangi na, Ama ezoba u yi yeko nya tsutsu.

16 SINCERITY IS NOT ENOUGH
   Jesus said to him, “ ‘You shall love the LORD your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.’ This is the first and great commandment.”
—Matthew 22:37, 38
Now as He was going out on the road, one came running, knelt before Him, and asked Him, “Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?” So Jesus said to him, “Why do you call Me good? No one is good but One, that is, God. You know the commandments: ‘Do not com- mit adultery,’ ‘Do not murder,’ ‘Do not steal,’ ‘Do not bear
false witness,’ ‘Do not defraud,’ ‘Honor your father and your mother.’” And he answered and said to Him, “Teacher, all these I have observed from my youth.” Then Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, “One thing you lack: Go your way, sell whatever you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, take up the cross, and follow Me.” But he was sad at this word, and went away grieved, for he had great posses- sions. —Mark 10:17-22
There is a way that seems right toaman,butitsendisthewayof death. —Proverbs 16:25

GA TA NIMI 'O TA MA

Galatiacizi 6:7

17

jincizi, to nuwonnpecizi, to to- Soko kogicizi, to nyanyagicizi, a a gi 'gun sarota Soko a.

Ga ta nimi ye ta ma; a ema tsa a: gamaşi enya ndondo na eza dzo na, wunga wun a ma o.

1 John 3:7, 8a

Egi tetengi mizi, ga lugwa eza ndondo la ye gbinka ma: eza na ejin eli gasikiya na yi eli gasikiya- eti egi ninavozi o. deci, kendona u yi eli gasikiyadeci na: eza na ejin lefi na yi nya Ibili; gama Ibili ejin lefi daga ecaba o.

1 Korinticizi 6:9, 10

Ye kpe ga, zezi de gasikiya a na a a gi gun sarota Soko a? Ga ta nimi ye ta ma: to siankalajincizi, to kutijincizi, to nyacidacizi, to eli nyizagidecizi, to zezi elele be ba- gizi nyi na, to yigbecizi, to kodari- ta.

Efasuscizi 5:6

Ga lugwa eza ndondo ta ye ta be ega banzazi nyi ma: gamaşi ebo enya nanazi o fusi nya Soko ebe

Jamesi 1:22 Ama ye fe etunlocizi nya ega wuncin, ye ga fe tukpasicizi gbaugi, ye ci ta nimi ye ta ma.

Galatiacizi 6:3

Gamaşi wun ayike eza kpaye ke wuntso yi enya ndoci na, na u yi 'nya ndondo a na, wun eta nimi u

18

Do not be deceived, God is not mocked; for whatever a man sows, that he will also reap.
—Galatians 6:7
Little children, let no one de- ceive you. He who practices right- eousness is righteous, just as He is righteous. He who sins is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the beginning. —1 John 3:7, 8a
Do you not know that the un- righteous will not inherit the king- dom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor re- vilers, nor extortioners will inher-
it the kingdom of God.
—1 Corinthians 6:9, 10
Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience.
—Ephesians 5:6
But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your- selves. —James 1:22
For if anyone thinks himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself. —Galatians 6:3
“For many will come in My name, saying, ‘I am the Christ,’ and will deceive many.”
—Matthew 24:5


LEFI ELA TSUTSU BE

Romicizi 5:12

Ebogabo, ke be egwa nyi nya 'za eni kete lefi alo yize na, to tsutsu ma be egwa lefi nyi; acinga tsutsu goga da 'ba eza kpata, ebo na eza kpata jin lefi na.

Jamesi 1:15

Kanga, kami na enyayeda lefi be de won na, wun ema lefi: to lefi, kami na wun awoncin na, wun ema tsutsu.

Romicizi 8:6, 7 Gamaşi esada nya naka yi tsu- tsu; ama esada nya ruhu yi rayi to lafiya: gama esada nya naka yi ewunsun be Soko nyi; gama wun egba ya ataura nya u ma jin u wo a. Soko akika, a,

Ezekiel 18:20

Rayi na jin lefi na, wun a 'tsu: egi bagi a la kara lefi nya nda a, to nda a la kara lefi nya egi bagi a; eli gasikiya nya eza gasikiya a da be u nyi, to eli dede nya eza dede a da be u nyi.

Luke 15:32

Ama u ge na yi jin raha na, yi ci manin: gama yegi bagi we nana u tsu, u ma de rayi be; wun aya, yi ma u de.

Gacinzi 11:19 Eza na egikinni gboka nimi eli gasikiya o na wun a tun 'ba rayi: To eza na elamitu enya dede na, wun ela tsutsu nya wuntso be.
3:51

LTE
SIN BRINGS DEATH
Therefore, just as through one man sin entered the world, and death through sin, and thus death spread to all men, because all sinned. —Romans 5:12
Then, when desire has con- ceived, it gives birth to sin; and sin, when it is full-grown, brings forth death. —James 1:15
For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually mind- ed is life and peace. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, nor indeed can be.
—Romans 8:6, 7 “The soul who sins shall die. The son shall not bear the guilt of
the father, nor the father bear the guilt of the son. The righteous- ness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him- self.” —Ezekiel 18:20
“‘It was right that we should make merry and be glad, for your brother was dead and is alive a- gain, and was lost and is found.’ ”
—Luke 15:32 As righteousness leads to life, so he who pursues evil pursues it
to his own death. —Proverbs 11:19
For the wages of sin is death.
—Romans 6:23a


KRISTI DE NASARA EI TSUTSU O

Romicizi 1:4

Ama na atula Egi nya Soko be kagbo nyi eba ruhu lilici o, be kiņ- na nyi nimi ezatsutsucizi o na; wunga yi Jesu Kristi o Tsoci yi.

Gbarufu, mi ga ya we, ga, Nakin. Eza na atsu na anakin fedun, ci ya ega nyi ga.

John 11:43, 44

Kami na u ga acin na, u kpogun saranyi, ci ga, Lazarus, dzun be. Eza na atsu na dzun be, egwazi to bicizi apa be ede koşa nyi; a la eye u pa be tswafagi nyi. Jesu ga ya a, ga, La u lo, lugwa u da.

Luke 7:14, 15a

U ci be lagwakun kpako: to eza nazi ela u na a gikinni. Jesu ci ga,

John 10:17, 18 Ebogabo Nda mi yebo mi o, ebo na mi la rayi mi şişi na, na mi a la u be na. Eza ndondo go u be mi nyi a, ama mitso la u şişi be gwa mi nyi. Mi de yiko na mi a la u şişi na mi ma de yiko na mi a la u be na. Mi go gami nana be Nda mi nyi.

Elatu 1:18

To Rayideci; mi tsu le, to cinle, mi de rayi hari lo, mi de egiyekozi nya tsutsu to nya Eku.

20

19

Deuteronomy 5:7-21

Wo ga de soko ndocizi ma, afe mi. Wo ga jin zasa ndondo ya nimi wotso o ma, wo ga sa enya ndondo na da sama o na ma, to nya kin na da tako o na, to enya na da nuwon tako o na ma: wo ga dajin ya a ma, wo ga gba a ma....

Wo ga tun Tsoci Soko wo ye ban- za ma; gamasi eza na tun u ye ban- za na, Tsoci a la eboma ya wun a.

Pa efofaci na ye a lagwasun u lilici na, kendona Tsoci Soko we ga ya we na. Efo gutswanyi we a lotun, wo ci jin enya ndondo na we a jin na....

CHRIST CONQUERED DEATH 19
And declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrec- tion from the dead. —Romans 1:4
Now when He had said these things, He cried with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come forth!” And he who had died came out bound hand and foot with graveclothes, and his face was wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, “Loose him, and let him go.”
—John 11:43, 44
“Therefore My Father loves Me, because I lay down My life that I may take it again. No one takes it from Me, but I lay it down of Myself. I have power to
lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This command I have received from My Father.”
—John 10:17, 18 Then He came and touched the open coffin, and those who carried him stood still. And He said, “Young man, I say to you, arise.” And he who was dead sat up and began to speak. —Luke 7:14, 15a
“I am He who lives, and was dead, and behold, I am alive for- evermore. Amen. And I have the keys of Hades and of Death.”
—Revelation 1:18
The last enemy that will be destroyed is death.
—1 Corinthians 15:26
GAMIZI NYA SOKO

La kunkun ya nda we to nna we, kendona Tsoci Soko we gaga ya we na....

Wo ga wu 'za ma.

Wo ma ga danyaci ma.

Wo ma ga yi 'nya ma.

Wo ma ga jin eri gamana tu 'za- baci we ma.

Wo ma ga jin kodari nyimi nya 'zabaci we ma; wo ma ga jin koda- ri emi nya 'zabaci we ma, ko lati u, ko wuzi u bagi, ko wuzi u nyizagi, ko nanko u, ko kiatiagi u, ko enya ndondo na yi nya 'zabaci we na.


THE COMMANDMENTS OF GOD
“[The LORD said,] ‘You shall have no other gods before Me.
‘You shall not make for your- self any carved image, or any like- ness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth be- neath, or that is in the water un- der the earth; you shall not bow down to them nor serve them. . . .
‘You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain, for the LORD will not hold him guilt- less who takes His name in vain.
‘Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the LORD your God commanded you. Six days you shall labor and do all your work. . . .
‘Honor your father and your mother, as the LORD your God has commanded you. . . .
‘You shall not murder.
‘You shall not commit adul- tery.
‘You shall not steal.
‘You shall not bear false wit- ness against your neighbor.
‘You shall not covet your neigh- bor’s wife; and you shall not de- sire your neighbor’s house, his field, his manservant, his maid- servant, his ox, his donkey, or any- thing that is your neighbor’s.’ ”
—Deuteronomy 5:7-21

EZA WANGI SO YA SOKO WO A

Job 34:21, 22 Gamasi eye u ecin yeko 'za wangi le, U le ezada u ye kpata. Baziko ndondo, ko wuru nya tsut- su da bo a, Ba na etun dedelocizi a so nimi a da na a.

Jeremiah 23:24 Mgba, eza ndondo la nimi u so da ebasusoci o na mi a le u ye a na? acin Tsoci ga o. Yega mi ese sama to kin? acin Tsoci ga o.

21

wuntso ela so we a, Ama yesi ena- na ke yigidi na: To baziko to baye- tin yi nini eba wo bo.

Gacinzi 15:3

Eye nya Tsoci da 'ba ndondo o, Ci etswa enya dede to enya wangi.

Hibrucizi 4:13

A de enyajinci ndondo na tula yita u bo a na a; ama enya kpata yi yavun ci akpe cici eye u bo, wun na yi agun benyi ną.

Luke 8:17

Zabura 139:8 to 12

Wun ayike mi a gun fin da sama na, baga bo wo da o: Wun ayike mi a jin gado mi da nimi Eku o na, cinle, wo da baga o.... Ka baziko

Gama a la enya ndondo so, na a a be la tula na a nyi a; to enya su- soci da bo, a a be kpe, a a be ga ù za a nyi a.
3:51

.. LTE

YOU CANNOT HIDE FROM GOD 21
“For His eyes are on the ways of man, and He sees all his steps. There is no darkness nor shadow of death where the workers of in- iquity may hide themselves.”
—Job 34:21, 22
“Can anyone hide himself in se- cret places, so I shall not see him?” says the LORD; “Do I not fill heaven and earth?” says the
if I make my bed in hell, behold, You are there. Indeed, the dark- ness shall not hide from You, but the night shines as the day; the darkness and the light are both alike to You.—Psalm 139:7, 8 and 12
The eyes of the LORD are in ev- ery place, keeping watch on the evil and the good. —Proverbs 15:3
And there is no creature hidden from His sight, but all things are naked and open to the eyes of Him to whom we must give ac- count. —Hebrews 4:13
“For nothing is secret that will not be revealed, nor anything hid- den that will not be known and come to light.” —Luke 8:17

22 FORO NYA HARI LO YA EZA NAZI GOGA Mattiu 13:41, 42

Egi nya eza wun a tun malayika uzi tun, a a be ku yeka nimi sarota u bo, enya ndondo na ela eza cin bici na, to eza nazi ejin enya dede ną, ci a ku a ce fi ena o, na woncin na: a a tigi la nyika ku dozi.

Zabura 9:17 Eza dedezi a keze da Eku (emi- na), To eza kinzi kpata nazi ela Soko bata na.

2 Piteru 3:7

Ama samazi nazi da bo gbani na, to kin, gangani be ega nana ot- so nyi, a aku yeka ebo ena o, ci ela a şişi ka efo șiriya to gbingbin nya eza dedezi.

A NA

2 Tasalonikacizi 1:9 Eza nazi a go foro na, wuncin yi gbingbin hari lo daga yita Tsoci o to daga cinwon nya kagbo u.

Mattiu 18:8

Wun ayike egwa nya we ko bici

nya we ela we cin bici na, wo la u ba ya, wo ci la u ce ya daga eba wo bo: gama u ge ga ya we na we a da 'ba rayi ebanyici ko dukunci na, ga na we a de egwa gubaba ko bici gubaba na a ce we da emina o, na a da bo hari lo na.

Mattiu 25:46

Nanazi a da foroba hari lo: ama eza gasikiyazi a da 'ba rayi hari lo.
EVERLASTING PUNISHMENT OF THE UNGODLY
“The Son of Man will send out His angels, and they will gather out of His kingdom all things that offend, and those who practice lawlessness, and will cast them in- to the furnace of fire. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth.” —Matthew 13:41, 42
The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that for- get God. —Psalm 9:17
But the heavens and the earth which now exist are kept in store by the same word, reserved for fire until the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men.
—2 Peter 3:7 These shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the
presence of the Lord and from the glory of His power.
—2 Thessalonians 1:9 “And if your hand or foot causes you to sin, cut it off and cast it from you. It is better for you to enter into life lame or maimed, rather than having two hands or two feet, to be cast into
the everlasting fire.”
—Matthew 18:8
“And these will go away in- to everlasting punishment, but the right- eous into eter- nal life.”
—Matthew 25:46

SIRIYA DA YEGBORO O

23

To tun daga na a la u şişi ya eza wangizi na zun eni kete a a tsu na, to zunma wuncin o ma șiriya da bo; acinga Kristi ma, daga na a la u jin sadaka zun eni kete na wun a go lefi nya eza kamazi na, wun a be dzun be zun baci, bambe lefi nyi, ya eza nazi eka u na, ebo biboya o. -Hibrucizi 9:27

Etun Nya Tuncizi 17:31 Daga na u da 'fo na wun a jin yize șiriya nimi eli gasikiya o na, be egwa nyi nya eza ga na u tsa șiși ani na; u ma jin eri wuncin ya eza wangizi kpata kami na u la u nakin tatacin ezatsutsucizi o na.

2 Piteru 2:9

Tsoci kpe kendona wun a la ezazi nazi egba u na wa dzun nimi mimacinle o na, ci tswa eza dedezi nimi foro o hari be efo șiriya nyi.

1 John 4:17

Be nana nyi cincin agunmi be yi nyi, na yi a de nyagbantu nimi efo siriya o na; gama kendona u yi na, acinga ma yi yi o, nimi yize nana o. be ta nya wuntso ya Soko o.

2 Korinticizi 5:10 Gamaşi tile yi kpata a be gikin- ni yita esa şiriya nya Kristi o; ebo eza ndondo a go enya nazi u jiņ nimi naką o na,... ko u fe wangi ko dede.

Romicizi 14:12 Acinga eza ndondo nimi yi bo a

24

“Because He has appointed a day on which He will judge the world in righteousness by the Man whom He has ordained. He has given assurance of this to all by raising Him from the dead.”
—Acts 17:31
Then the Lord knows how to deliver the godly out of tempta- tions and to reserve the unjust un- der punishment for the day of judgment. —2 Peter 2:9
For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. —2 Corinthians 5:10
Love has been perfected among us in this: that we may have bold- ness in the day of judgment; be- cause as He is, so are we in this world. —1 John 4:17
And as it is appointed for men to die once, but after this the judgment. —Hebrews 9:27
And I saw the dead, small and great, standing before God, and books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the Book of Life. And the dead were judged according to their works.
—Revelation 20:12a
So then each of us shall give ac- count of himself to God.
—Romans 14:12

MANA NYA JESU KRISTI

Romicizi 5:15

Ama eriatwa efia u yi kendoną gbingbintu yi na a. Gama wun ga a na. ayike be gbingbintu nyi nya eza nini kete ezazi tsu dokun na, bele na dokun ga acin na, mana nya Soko, to eriatwa be mana nyi nya eza nini, Jesu Kristi, wun a bebe ya ezazi dokun. Romicizi 9:16

Acinga u yi nya wun na ewa na a, ko nya wun na ebici na a, ama nya Soko na egun 'za ye na.

2 Korinticizi 8:9; 9:15

Gama ye kpe mana nya Tsoci yi Jesu Kristi ye, ke na u yi dukiya- deci na, u be aze enyagbaci ebo ye bo, ebo ye be enyagba u nyi ye ga

aze dukiyadecizi ma.... Yi jiņ yebo Soko ebo eriatwa u bo na ye

Romicizi 5:20b, 21 Ama 'ba na lefi adokun na, ma- na adokun ga u nyasasanyi: ebo, kendona lefi jin yikunci nimi tsu- tsu o na acinga ma mana a jiņ yikunci nimi eli gasikiya o lo 'ba rayi hari lo be egwa Jesu Kristi nyi Tsoci yi.

1 Piteru 5:5b Soko ena gagajincizi vo, ama wun ela mana ya eza eli gbigbacizi.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 4:33 Tuncizi jin eri a nya kinna Tsoci Jesu be yiko nyi saranyi: mana kpe 'ti a bo kpata nyasasanyi.
3:51

LTE
THE GRACE OF JESUS CHRIST
 But the free gift is not like the of- fense. For if by the one man’s of- fense many died, much more the grace of God and the gift by the
For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though He was rich, yet for your sakes He became poor, that you through His poverty might become rich.
—2 Corinthians 8:9
But where sin abounded, grace abounded much more, so that as sin reigned in death, even so grace might reign through righteous- ness to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.—Romans 5:20b, 21
And with great power the apostles gave witness to the res- urrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all.
—Acts 4:33
grace of the one Man, Jesus Christ, abounded to many.
—Romans 5:15
So then it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who shows mercy.
—Romans 9:16
“God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”
—1 Peter 5:5b

TUBAJIN

Kami na eza wangizi ajin rakpe na, Soko gbinga kanga a; ama gbani u gaga ya eza wangizi kpata nazi da 'ba ndondo o na, ga, a jin tuba. -Etun Nya Tuncizi 17:30

Luke 13:3

Mi ga ya ye, ga, Eye, ama, kaga ye jin tuba a, ye ma ga agbin kpata acin.

Mattiu 3:2

Ci ga, Ye jin tuba; gama sarota nya sama atsotso.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 2:38; 3:19 Piteru ga ya a, ga, Ye jin tuba, to eza ndondo nimi ye bo u go bap- tisim nimi kaye nya Jesu Kristi o, ebo gafara nya lefi yezi o; ye ma a de eriatwa nya Ruhu Lilici go....

'ba Tsoci o be na. Ezekiel 18:31a

Ye la gamigbintu yezi kpata ce ya eba ye bo, nazi ye gbintu na. Gacinzi 28:13

Eza na ela gamigbintu uzi so na, wun a jin aziki a: Ama eza na eye a, ci ekega be a nyi na, wun a de yegun.

2 Korinticizi 7:10

Gamaşi nyagbanta na yi kendo- na Soko ewa na wun ela tuba lo 'ba biboya be, tuba na ela rogon- kpe be a na: ama nyagbanta nya yize wun ela tsutsu be.
“Truly, these times of igno- rance God overlooked, but now commands all men everywhere to repent.” —Acts 17:30
“I tell you, no; but unless you repent you will all likewise perish.” —Luke 13:3
And saying, “Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand!”
—Matthew 3:2
Then Peter said to them, “Re- pent, and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins; and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. Repent therefore
and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord.”
—Acts 2:38; 3:19
“Cast away from you all the transgressions which you have committed.” —Ezekiel 18:31a
He who covers his sins will not prosper, but whoever confesses and forsakes them will have mer- cy. —Proverbs 28:13
For godly sorrow produces re- pentance to salvation, not to be regretted; but the sorrow of the world produces death.
—2 Corinthians 7:10
REPENTANCE

GAFARA NYA LEFI

26

Ezekiel 18:21

25

Ebogabo ye jin tuba, ye ci keze zin be, na wun a la lefi yezi nu ya na, na kamizi nya alubarika a fe daga

Ama wun ayike eza dede a keze eba zunubi uzi o kpata nazi u jin na, u ci lagwasun gami mizi kpata, ci jin enya na yi nya gami to gboro na, akika, wun a de rayi, wun a tsu a.

Isaiah 55:7

Lugwa enyadedejinci la yeko u ya, to lugwa eza dede la yekpa uzi ya: to lugwa u keze be 'ba Tsoci, wun a gun u ye; u be 'ba Soko yi, gamasi wun a jin u gafara kpata.

Mattiu 6:14

Gama wun ayike ye jin ezazi ga- fara lefi azi na, Nda ye na da sama o na, wun a jin ye gafara mạ.

Taitus 2:11, 12 Gamaşi mana Soko adzun be, ci la biboya be ya eza wangizi kpata, ci la wu yi, ga, na yi gbomi cincinbo nya gbigba Soko to zara- ba dedezi nya yize na, yi ga fe be wunwonda nyi to eli lilici, to gbigba Soko nimi kami naną o.

Kolosicizi 3:2

La yekpa yezi lo 'ba enya gazi nazi da nimi finti o na, u yi eba enya gazi nazi da nimi kin bo na a.

1 John 2:15, 16 Ye ga yebo yize to enya nazi fi nimi yize o na ma. Wun ayike eza yebo yize na, cincin nya Nda dạ nimi u bo a. Gama enya kpata na

Marku 2:5

Kami na Jesu le yiyakpe nya a ye na, u ga ya nakakunci, ga, Egi, a jin we gafara lefi wezi ani.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 13:38b; 5:31 . nimi bagi nana o, acin a ta ega nya gafara lefizi ya ye o: Wunga Soko la woncin la u și gwalo u bo, u ci la u jin Tisi to Za- bolugwa, na wun a la tuba to gafara nya lefizi ya Israel na.

Elatu 3:20

Ciņle, mi egikinni eba kpako o ci eze u gwa: wun ayike eza wo bere mi ci kpe kpako na, mi a gada be 'ba u, mi a gi 'nya be u nyi, to wun be mi nyi.

 THE FORGIVENESS OF SINS
“But if a wicked man turns from all his sins which he has committed, keeps all My statutes, and does what is lawful and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die.” —Ezekiel 18:21
Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; let him return to the LORD, and He will have mercy on him; and to our God, for He will abundantly pardon. —Isaiah 55:7
“For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you.”
—Matthew 6:14
When Jesus saw their faith, He said to the paralytic, “Son, your
sins are forgiven you.” —Mark 2:5
“Through this Man [Jesus] is preached to you the forgiveness of sins; Him God has exalted to His right hand to be Prince and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.”
—Acts 13:38b; 5:31
“Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears My voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and dine with him, and he with Me.” —Revelation 3:20
“And that repentance and re- mission of sins should be preached in His name to all nations, begin- ning at Jerusalem.” —Luke 24:47
KIKEGA BE ENYAZI NYI NYA YIZE

27

fi nimi yize o na, enyayeda dede nya naka, to enyayeda dede nya eye, to cinwon banza nya rayi, u yi nya Nda a, ama u yi nya yize.

Efasuscizi 5:11

Ye ga pama be etunzi nyi nya baziko nazi de anfani a na ma, ama gomaga ye nawun fi a.

Jamesi 4:4

Ye nyacidacizi, ye kpe ga, eyada nya yize yi ewunsun be Soko nyi a? Ebogabo eza ndondo na ewa ga, u la yize da 'ya na, wun ela nimi u jin makiri Soko.

Isaiah 1:16

La nimi ye fu nuwon, la nimi ye li; la etun dede yezi ya daga yita mi bo; kega be enyadedejin nyi..
3:51

28
SEPARATION FROM WORLDLINESS 27
For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in the present age.
—Titus 2:11, 12 Set your mind on things above,
not on things on the earth. —Colossians 3:2
And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them.
—Ephesians 5:11 Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world—the lust of the
flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life—is not of the Father but is of the world. —1 John 2:15, 16
Adulterers and adulteresses! Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
—James 4:4 “Wash yourselves, make your-
selves clean; put away the evil of your doings from before My eyes. Cease to do evil.”
—Isaiah 1:16
 
MIMA WORO

.. LTE

Ezekiel 36:26

Mi ma a ya we nyagban woro, mi ma a la ruhu woro da nimi ye bo: mi ma a la nyagban takun wa ya naka ye bo, ci a ya ye nyagban gasikiya, mi ga ya we, ga, Kaga a nya naka.

John 3:3

ye 'za mą be a, u le sarota nya So-

ko ye wo a.

enya gbakozi agoga; cinle, a aze woro. Jesu gomi ga ya u, ga, Gasikiya,

1 John 2:29; 5:18

Wun ayike ye kpeteke u yi gasi- kiyadeci na, ye kpeteke eza ndon- do ma na ejin enya gasikiya na, u ma wun o.... Yi kpeteke eza ndondo na Soko ma na ejin lefi a na; ama eza na Soko ma na etswa u, Ibili ma elagwakun wun a.

2 Korinticizi 5:17

Ebogabo wun ayike eza da nimi Kristi o na, u yi enyajinci woro:

1 Korinticizi 6:11b

Ama a la ye na ya, ama a la ye jin 'za lilici, ama a la ye li nimi ka- ye nya Tsoci yi Jesu Kristi o, to nimi Ruhu nya Soko yi bo.

1 Piteru 1:23

Daga na u ye ye ma be na, u yi be edzo nyinyici nyi a, ama na ye nyi a na, be ega Soko nyi, na de rayi ci da bo nạ.

THE NEW BIRTH
“I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you; I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give you a heart of flesh.” —Ezekiel 36:26
If you know that He is right- eous, you know that everyone who practices righteousness is born of Him. We know that who- ever is born of God does not sin; but he who has been born of God keeps himself, and the wicked one does not touch him.
—1 John 2:29; 5:18
But you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. —1 Corinthians 6:11b
Jesus answered and said to him, “Most assuredly, I say to you, un- less one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.”
—John 3:3
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation; old things have passed away; behold, all things have become new.
—2 Corinthians 5:17
Having been born again, not of corruptible seed but incorrupt- ible, through the
word of God
which lives and abides forever.
—1 Peter 1:23


TSUTSU YA LEFI-KINNA NIMI KRISTI O

29

Efasuscizi 2:1 to 6

Ye ma, u da ye rayi be, kami na ye atsu ebo gbingbintu to lefi yezi o na,... u ci la yi nakin be u nyi, u ci la yi fedun be u nyi nimi eba sa- mazi o, be Kristi Jesu nyi.

Wuntso be eti u nyi u la lefi yizi nimi nakacigban nya wuntso lo 'ba cigban o, na yi, tun daga na yi atsu ani eba lefizi o na, yi a da bo eba eli gasikiya o, etin uzi ma la ye sagun ani. -1 Piteru 2:24 Kolosicizi 3:1-3

Kanga gancin, wun ayike a la ye nakin gani be Kristi nyi na, ye fe wa enya gazi nazi da nimi finti o na, 'ba na Kristi da na, ci efedun și gwalo nya Soko o. La yekpa yezi

lo 'ba enya gazi nazi da nimi finti o na, u yi eba enya gazi nazi da nimi kin bo na a. Gamaşi ye tsu, rayi nya ye ma aso gani be Kristi nyi nimi Soko o.

Galatiacizi 5:24, 25

To eza nazi yi nya Kristi Jesu na a la naka ka ba ebu o gani be kodarizi nyi to zarabazi nya wun- cin o. Wun ayike yi da rayi o be Ruhu nyi na, lugwa yi fe daza be Ruhu nyi ma.

Yi nazi atsu eba lefi o na, ke yi a tata ci de rayi nimi u bo be na o?... Acinga ma yetso ye ro nimi ye ke ye tsu eba lefi o na, ama na ye de rayi eba Soko o nimi Kristi Jesu o na. -Romicizi 6:2 to 11

30

DEAD TO SIN — RISEN IN CHRIST 29
And you He made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins. And raised us up together, and made us sit together in the heav- enly places in Christ Jesus.
—Ephesians 2:1 and 6
Who Himself bore our sins in His own body on the tree, that we, having died to sins, might live for righteousness—by whose stripes you were healed. —1 Peter 2:24
If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth. For you died,
and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is our life appears, then you also will ap- pear with Him in glory.
—Colossians 3:1-4
And those who are Christ’s have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. —Galatians 5:24, 25
Certainly not! How shall we who died to sin live any longer in it? Likewise you also, reckon yourselves to be dead indeed to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
—Romans 6:2 and 11
RAYI HARI LO

Galatiacizi 6:8 Gamaşi eza na edzo 'nya ya na- ka u na, daga eba naką o wun a ma nyinyiya o; ama eza na dzo 'nya ya Ruhu na, daga eba Ruhu o wun a ma rayi hari lo.

John 3:14, 15 Kendona Musa la ewa ga lofin nimi gonta o le na, acinga ma a a la Egi nya eza lofin o: ebo eza ndondo na a yakpe u na, wun a de rayi hari lo.

John 3:36

Eza na yakpe Egi na, u de rayi hari lo; eza na goga nya Egi a na wun a le rayi ye a, ama ewun nya Soko efedun ta 'ti u bo.

Romicizi 6:23

Gamaşi gbatawo nya lefi yi tsu- tsu o; ama eriatwa efia nya Soko yi rayi hari lo nimi Kristi Jesu o Tsoci yi.

John 5:24

Gasikiya, gasikiya, mi ga ya ye, ga, Eza na wo 'ga mi, ci yakpe wun na tun mi be na, u de rayi hari lo, wun a be șiriyaba a; ama wun adzun nimi tsutsu o, da 'ba rayi.

John 17:3

Rayi hari lo dana, ga, a a kpe wo ye Soko gasikiya nini kete, to Jesu Kristi, na wo tun be na.
3:51

LTE
 ETERNAL LIFE
For he who sows to his flesh will of the flesh reap corruption, but he who sows to the Spirit will of the Spirit reap everlasting life.
—Galatians 6:8
“And as Moses lifted up the ser- pent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whoever believes in Him should not perish but have eternal life.” —John 3:14, 15
“And this is eternal life, that they may know You, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom You have sent.” —John 17:3
“He who believes in the Son has everlasting life; and he who does not believe the Son shall not see
life, but the wrath of God abides on him.” —John 3:36
...the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
—Romans 6:23
“Most assuredly, I say to you, he who hears My word and be- lieves in Him who sent Me has ev- erlasting life, and shall not come into judgment, but has passed from death into life.” —John 5:24
His own purpose and grace... has now been revealed by the ap- pearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel.
—2 Timothy 1:9b, 10
AKIKA NYA BIBOYA

Romicizi 8:16

Ruhu Lilici wuntso ejin eri gani be ruhu yi nyi, ke yi yi egizi nya Soko na.

1 John 5:12, 13

Eza na de Egi na de rayi; eza na de Egi nya Soko a na, u de rayi a. Mi ka ega nanazi ya ye, na ye a kpeteke ye de rayi nya hari lo na, wuncin yi, ye nazi yakpe kaye nya Egi nya Soko na.

Isaiah 32:17

To etun nya eli gasikiya a fe la- fiya; to etun nya eli gasikiya a fe nyagban sanyi to kpikpetso hari lo.

32

31

John 17:13

Gbani mi ebe 'ba we; mi ega enya anazi nimi yize o, na, mawo nya mi a se a na.

John 16:22b

Ama mi a le ye ye be, nyagban ye a manin, eza ndondo a go nin- ma ye be ye nyi a.

Romicizi 14:17

Gamaşi muliki nya Soko u yi gi- gi to finfin a, ama eli gasikiya, to lafiya, to ninma nimi Ruhi Lilici o.

Galatiacizi 2:20 A la mi ka ba ebu o gani be Kris- ti nyi; u ma yi mi na de rayi gbani be na a, ama Kristi da nimi mi bo:

John 14:21

Eza na de gami mizi, ci elagwa- sun a na, wunga yebo mi o: to eza na yebo mi na, Nda mi a yebo u ma, mi ma a yebo u, mi a la nimi mi wu u.

Galatiacizi 4:6

To ebo na ye yi egizi na, Soko tun Ruhu nya Egi u be da nimi nyagban yizi o, ci eyi u Abba, Nda.

1 John 4:13

Be nana nyi yi kpeteke yi efed- un da nimi u bo na, to nwi nimi yi bo, ebo na u la nya Ruhu u ya yi na.
ASSURANCE OF SALVATION 31
The Spirit Himself bears wit- ness with our spirit that we are children of God. —Romans 8:16
And this is the testimony: that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. He who has the Son has life; he who does not have the Son of God does not have life. These things I have written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. —1 John 5:11-13a
“He who has My command- ments and keeps them, it is he who loves Me. And he who loves Me will be loved by My Father,
and I will love him and manifest Myself to him.” —John 14:21
The work of righteousness will be peace, and the effect of right- eousness, quietness and assur- ance forever. —Isaiah 32:17
And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying out, “Abba, Father!” —Galatians 4:6
By this we know that we abide in Him, and He in us, because He has given us of His Spirit.
—1 John 4:13
Now by this we know that we know Him, if we keep His com- mandments. —1 John 2:3
KRISTI DA NIN BO ELA NINMA BE

to rayi ga na mi de gbani nimi naką o na, mi de u be yiyakpe nyi, yiyakpe na da nimi Egi Soko o na, na yebo mi, ci la nimi u twaria ebo mi bo na.

Isaiah 12:3

Ebogabo be nima nyi ye a to nu- won daga gogazi nya biboya o.

John 15:11

Mi ga nanazi ya ye, na mawo nya mi a da be ye nyi na, to na mawo nya ye ga aşe na.

Zabura 16:11

We a la yeko nya rayi wu mi: Ninfu nya ninma da yita wo bo; Nyagbanfa hari le ma da nimi egwalo 'o bo.

THE INDWELLING CHRIST GIVES JOY
“But now I come to You, and these things I speak in the world, that they may have My joy ful- filled in themselves.” —John 17:13
“I will see you again and your heart will rejoice, and your joy no one will take from you.”
—John 16:22b For the kingdom of God is not food and drink, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. —Romans 14:17 Therefore with joy you will draw water from the wells of sal- vation. —Isaiah 12:3 “I have been crucified with Christ; it is no longer I who live, but Christ lives in me; and the life
which I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself for me.” —Galatians 2:20
“These things I have spoken to you, that My joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be full.” —John 15:11
You will show me the path of life; in Your presence is fullness of joy; at Your right hand are pleasures forevermore.
—Psalm 16:11
Whom having not seen you love. Though now you do not see Him, yet believing, you rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory. —1 Peter 1:8
U YI TILE NA YI A GBA 'GA TSOCI NA

1 Samuel 12:15

33

kagbo u.

yita Tsoci o to daga cinwon nya

Ama wun ayike ye a situkpa wo 'mi Tsoci a na, ye ci be na gami Tsoci vo, kanga egwa nya Tsoci a sunwun be ye nyi, kendona u sun- wun be nda yezi nyi na.

2 Tasalonikacizi 1:7-9

To ya ye nazi eba apin ya na, efa gani be yi nyi, kami nya elatu nya Tsoci Jesu daga sama o gani be malayikazi nyi nya kagbo u nimi eną o na eke na, ci gagba ya eza nazi kpe Soko ye a na, to ya eza nazi gba labari wangi nya Tsoci yi Jesu a na: eza nazi a go foro na, wuncin yi gbingbin hari lo daga

Romicizi 6:16

Ye kpe wuncin ye a, ke eza na ye ela nimi ye ya na, na ye a jin wuzi u lamitu u na, eza na ye elamitu na, ye yi wuzi uzi; ko nya lefi lo 'ba tsutsu, ko nya gbigba lo 'ba eli gasikiya?

Deuteronomy 11:26-28a

Cinle, mi ela alubarika to emibo sisi yita ye bo nyina; alubarika u yi o, wun ayike ye a situkpa wo gamizi nya Tsoci Soko ye na, nazi mi ga ya ye nyina na: to emibo ma u yi o, wun ayike ye a situkpa wo gamizi nya Tsoci Šoko ye a na.

OBEDIENCE TO THE LORD NECESSARY 33
“However, if you do not obey the voice of the LORD, but rebel against the commandment of the LORD, then the hand of the LORD will be against you, as it was against your fathers.”
—1 Samuel 12:15
Do you not know that to whom you present yourselves slaves to obey, you are that one’s slaves whom you obey, whether of sin to death, or of obedience to right- eousness? —Romans 6:16
And to give you who are troubled rest with us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with His mighty angels,
in flaming fire taking vengeance on those who do not know God, and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These shall be punished with ever- lasting destruction from the pres- ence of the Lord and from the glory of His power.
—2 Thessalonians 1:7-9
“Behold, I set before you today a blessing and a curse: the bless- ing, if you obey the command- ments of the LORD your God which I command you today; and the curse, if you do not obey the commandments of the LORD your God.” —Deuteronomy 11:26-28a
3:52

34

U YI TILE NA EZA A YE KRISTI NA Filipaicizi 2:11

.LTE

To na gintara ndondo a ye ke Jesu Kristi yi Tsoci na, ebo cinwon nya Soko Nda.

Mattiu 10:32, 33

Ebogabo eza ndondo na a ye mi eye eza wangizi o na, mitso ma a ye u eye Nda mi bo na da sama o na. Ama eza ndondo na a gbo mi mi eye eza wangizi o na, mitso ma a gbo u mi eye Nda mi bo na da sama o na.

Romicizi 10:9, 10

Wun ayike wo ga ye be misun we nyi ke Jesu yi Tsoci na, wo ci yakpe nimi nyagban wo bo ke So- ko la u da kinna re nimi ekucizi o

na, a a bo we ya: gamasi be nyagban nyi acin eza wangi eyakpe hari be eli gasikiya nyi, to be misun nyi acin a gomi lo 'ba biboya o.

1 John 2:23

Eza ndondo na egbomi nya Egi na, eza ga u de Nda a: eza na eye Egi na, u de Nda ma.

Luke 9:26

Gama eza ndondo na a sunzun- ye ebo mi bo, to ebo ega mizi o na, Egi nya eza a sunzunye ebo eza ga o, kami na u ga be be cinwon nyi nya wuntso, to cinwon nya Nda, to nya malayika lilicizi na.
CONFESSION OF CHRIST NECESSARY
And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
—Philippians 2:11 “Therefore whoever confesses Me before men, him I will also confess before My Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies Me before men, him I will also deny before My Father who is in heaven.” —Matthew 10:32, 33
By this you know the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. —1 John 4:2
Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. —1 John 4:15
That if you confess with your mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in your heart that God has raised Him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one be- lieves to righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made to salvation. —Romans 10:9, 10
Whoever denies the Son does not have the Father either; he who acknowledges the Son has the Father also. —1 John 2:23
“For whoever is ashamed of Me and My words, of him the Son of Man will be ashamed when He comes in His own glory, and in His Father’s, and of the holy angels.” —Luke 9:
SETAN-MAKIRI WONCINKO YI

35

1 Peteru 5:8 Ye won nimi ye da, fe tswa' ba: makiri ye Ibili eceka za ke gaba na etiwu na, ci ewa eza na wun a gi na za.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 26:18 Na we a la eye azi kpe na, na a ga keze daga eba baziko o da 'ba bayetin na, to daga eba kagbo nya Şetan o, da 'ba Soko, na a a de gafara nya lefi azi go na, to egungi gani be a nyi nazi yi ezalili- cizi na be yiyakpe nyi nimi mi bo.

Mattiu 4:1 to 10, 11 Kanga Ruhu la Jesu da gonta na Ibili a ma u cinle na.... Kanga Jesu ga ya u, ga, Kpekpe babo,

36

Şetan: gama a ka u da litafi o, ga, Tsoci Soko we we a gba o, wun gbaugi we a wun o. Kanga Ibili la u lugwa; to cinle malayikazi be a ci wun u.

2 Tasalonikacizi 2:9

Wuncin yi wun, na bibe u yi gangani be etun nyi nya Setan na be kagbo kpata nyi to erizi to en- ya yekazi nya gamana.

Efasuscizi 6:10, 11

Na ke na, ye fe gbokagbo lo 'ye nimi Tsoci o, to be kagbo nyi nya wun na yi kagboci na. Ye ku enya ekunzi kpata nya Soko da, ebo ye de 'ba ye gikinni gboka ka kisazi kpata nya Ibili o.
SATAN — OUR ARCH ENEMY 35
 Be sober, be vigi- lant; because your adversary the devil walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Resist him, steadfast in the faith. —1 Peter 5:8, 9a
Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. Then Jesus said to him “Away with you, Satan! For it is written, ‘You shall worship the LORD your God, and Him only you shall serve.’ ” Then the devil left Him, and behold, angels came and ministered to Him. —Matthew 4:1 and 10, 11
Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of His might. Put on the whole ar- mor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. —Ephesians 6:10, 11
For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal but mighty in God for pulling down strongholds.
—2 Corinthians 10:4 He [the devil] was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him....he is a liar and the father of it. —John 8:44b I also forgive. . . lest Satan should take advantage of us; for we are not ignorant of his devices. —2 Corinthians 2:10b, 11a
NASARA ETI SETAN BO

Hibrucizi 2:14 Daga na egizi yi emapacizi nimi

naka to egia o na, wuntso ma acinga pama be wuncinzi nyi; ebo be tsutsu nyi wun a la wun na de kagbo tsutsu na ze banza, wunga yi Ibili

1 John 3:8 Eza na ejin lefi na yi nya Ibili; gama Ibili ejin lefi daga ecaba o. Ebo wuncin o Egi nya Soko dzun be o, na wun a la etunzi nya Ibili ze banza ną.

Romicizi 8:35 to 37

Ze a ke yi ga be cincin nyi nya Kristi o? mgba, wala, ko nyagban- tą, ko sungako mada, ko yavun, ko masiba, ko ebiko? Eye, nimi

enya anazi o kpata, yi yi nasarade- cizi nazi acetu na be egwa unyi na yebo yi ną.

Jamesi 4:7, 8a

Ebogabo ye la nimi ye gba ya Soko; ama ye ka Ibili, u ma a bici daga eba ye bo. Ye yeba Soko, u ma a yeba ye.

2 Tasalonikacizi 2:8, 9

Kanga ninavoci nya gami ga atula o, wun na Tsoci Jesu a la gbin be esunsun nyi nya misun u na, ci la u ze banza be elatu nyi nya bibe u; wuncin yi wun, na bibe u yi gangani be etun nyi nya Şe- tan na be kagbo kpata nyi to erizi to enya yekazi nya gamana.
3:52
VICTORY OVER SATAN
Inasmuch then as the children have partaken of flesh and blood, He Himself likewise shared in the same, that through death He might destroy him who had the power of death, that is, the devil.
—Hebrews 2:14
He who sins is of the devil, for the devil has sinned from the be- ginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that He might destroy the works of the devil. —1 John 3:8
“To open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among
those who are sanctified by faith in Me.” —Acts 26:18
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? Yet in all these things we are more than conquerors through Him who loved us.
—Romans 8:35 and 37 Therefore submit to God. Re- sist the devil and he will flee from you. Draw near to God and He
will draw near to you.
—James 4:7, 8a
Now is the judgment of this world; now the ruler of this world will be cast out. —John 12:31
CINCIN YI ERI NYA EZAZUNMA NYA JESU 37

LTE

1 Korinticizi 13:1

u, ga, Eba, Tsoci; wo kpeteke mi yebo we na. U ga ya u, ga, Ka

Ka mi ga gaga be ezi misunzi nyi nya eza wangizi to nya mala- kingbagba mizi. yikazi, mi ci de cincin a na, mi aze ke efin na etiwu na, ko kule na eti gongonyi na.

1 John 4:20

Wun ayike eza ega, ga, Mi yebo Soko, ci ena yegi u vo na, gamana- zunci u yi o: gamaşi eza na eyebo yi yegi wun a, na u leye na, u yebo cincin, ninma, mawo, nyagbanwu, Soko na u leye a na wo a.

Ama

Galatiacizi 5:22, 23a sunsun nya Ruhu

ceto, eli wangi, eli gasikiya, ek-

piada, eli wunwonda: gami ndo-

ndo eka nanazi nyi jiņ a. John 14:15 Wun ayike ye yebo mi na, ye a

lagwasun gami mizi. John 21:16 U ga ya u zun baci, ga, Simon, egi nya Jona, wo yebo mi? U ga ya

Yi kpeteke yi adzun eba tsutsu o da 'ba rayi ani, ebo na yi yebo yegizi na. Eza na yebo yegi wun a na, wun efedun da nimi tsutsu o.

38

John 13:35

Be nana nyi, eza kpata a kpete- ke ye yi ezazuņma mizi na, wun ayike ye yebo dozi na. 1 John 3:14
LOVE, THE TEST OF DISCIPLESHIP 37
Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I have become as sounding brass or a clanging cym- bal. —1 Corinthians 13:1
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control.
—Galatians 5:22, 23a
He said to him again a second time, “Simon, son of Jonah, do you love Me?” He said to Him, “Yes, Lord; You know that I love You.” He said to him, “Tend My sheep.” —John 21:16
“If you love Me, keep My com- mandments.” —John 14:15
If someone says, “I love God,” and hates his brother, he is a liar; for he who does not love his broth- er whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen?
—1 John 4:20
“By this all will know that you are My disciples, if you have love for one another.” —John 13:35
We know that we have passed from death to life, because we love the brethren. He who does not love his brother abides in death. —1 John 3:14
For this is the love of God, that we keep His commandments. And His commandments are not bur- densome. —1 John 5:3
KINNA NYA JESU KRISTI

Etun Nya Tuncizi 10:39-41 Yi ma yi erijincizi nya enya kpa- ta nazi u jin nimi kin Yahudizi to nimi Jerusalem o na; eza na a la ka ba ebu o a ci la wu na. Wunga Soko la nakin efo taci o, u ci la u tula, u yi ya eza kpata a, ama sayi ya ya erijincizi nazi Soko tsa şişi na, yitso ma a yi o, nazi gi 'nya to fin 'nya gani be u nyi zunmą na wun anakin eba ezatsutsucizi o na.

Marku 16:9

Kami na Jesu anakin lazin fu- funyi efo mafari nya efo gutwaba na, u la nimi u wu Mariyamu Mag. dalaci bedzo, eza na u nya setan gutwaba dzun naka u bo na.

John 5:25 to 28, 29 Gasikiya, gasikiya, mi ga ya ye, ga, Kami ebe, u ma tun ani, na eza- tsutsucizi a wo emi nya Egi nya Soko na; to eza nazi wo na a de rayi. Nana ga ka ye ye ma: gama kami ebe, nimi u bo, eza kpata nazi fi koşa o na, a a wo 'mi u, a ga adzun be; eza nazi jin wangi na, a a da 'ba kinna nya rayi; to eza nazi jin dede na, a a da 'ba kinna nya şiriya.

John 20:26-28 Zunma efo gutota o be, ezazun- ma uzi da nin bo, Tomas ma da be a nyi, yekozi atsu. Kanga Jesu be, ci gikinni tatacin a bo, ci ga, Lafiya u da be ye nyi. Kanga u ga Tomas, ga, Ta egwa ginginni nya we be, cin egwa mizi le; ta egwa we be, la u lo kasa mi: ga jin eza na yakpe a na ma, ama yakpe. Tomas gomi ga ya u, ga, Tsoci mi, to Soko mi.

Romicizi 4:25

Wun na a la ya tsutsu ebo gbin- gbintu yizi o na, to na a la nakin ebo lili yi bo na.
THE RESURRECTION OF JESUS CHRIST
 Now when He rose ear- ly on the first day of the week, He
appeared first to Mary Magda- lene, out of whom He had cast seven demons. —Mark 16:9
Who was delivered up because of our offenses, and was raised be- cause of our justification.
—Romans 4:25
“And we are witnesses of all things which He did both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusa- lem, whom they killed by hanging on a tree. Him God raised up on the third day, and showed Him
openly, not to all the people, but to witnesses chosen before by God, even to us who ate and drank with Him after He arose from the dead.” —Acts 10:39-41
And after eight days His dis- ciples were again inside, and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, “Peace to you!” Then He said to Thomas, “Reach your finger here, and look at My hands; and reach your hand here, and put it into My side. Do not be unbelieving, but believing.” And Thomas answered and said to Him, “My Lord and my God!”
—John 20:26-28
KINNA NYA EZATSUTSUCIZI, YETU WONCINKO YI 39

nimi tsutsu o: ebo kendoną Kristi da kinną re nimi ezatsutsucizi o be cinwon nyi nya Nda na, acinga ma yitso de 'ba ci lo ye lo be rayi woro nyi. Gama wun ayike yi aze nini be u nyi nimi sisa nya tsutsu u nạ, yi ga aze nini nimi sisa nya kiņna u ma.

To wun ayike Kristi da nimi ye bo na,... ruhu yi rayi ebo eli gasi- kiya o. Ama wun ayike Ruhu nya wun na la Jesu nakin nimi ezat- sutsucizi o na afedun da nimi ye bo na, wun na la Kristi Jesu nakin nimi ezatsutsucizi o na, wun a la nakatsutsuci ye da rayi be be ru- hu u nyi na efedun da nimi ye bo -Romicizi 8:10-11

Romicizi 6:3-5 Kaşin ye kpe wuncin ye a, ke yi kpata nazi a jin baptisim nimi Kristi Jesu o na, a jin yi baptisim nimi tsutsu u bo? Ebogabo a la yi dzu gani be u nyi be baptisim nyi na.
3:52

40
THE RESURRECTION, OUR GLORIOUS HOPE 39
“The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God; and those who hear will live. Do not marvel at this; for the hour is coming in which all who are in the graves will hear His voice and come forth—those who have done good, to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil, to the resurrection of condemnation.”
—John 5:25b and 28, 29
Or do you not know that as many of us as were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into His death? Therefore we were bur- ied with Him through baptism in- to death, that just as Christ was
raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. For if we have been united togeth- er in the likeness of His death, cer- tainly we also shall be in the like- ness of His resurrection.
—Romans 6:3-5
And if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the Spirit is life because of righteous- ness. But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through His Spirit who dwells in you.
—Romans 8:10, 11

LILICIJIN YA TSOCI

LTE

Luke 1:74, 75

Na wun a ya yi, na wun a la yi wa egwa makiri yizi o na, na yi a nyi, to be ena nyi. wun u bambe dasun nyi na, nimi eli lilici to eli gasikiya o eye u bo, efo yizi kpata.

1 Piteru 1:2a

mi a ku eda uzi sungwa na a: wun a jin ye baptisim be Ruhu Lilici

2 Korinticizi 7:1

Eza cincincizi, daga na yi de alikawoli nanazi na, lugwa yi la nimi yi li eba şika kpata nya naka to nya ruhu o, yi ci la lili gunmi ni- mi dasun Soko o.

Mattiu 3:11

Be 'mi gasikiya nyi mi ejin ye baptisim be nuwon nyi nya tuba: ama eza na ebe da zunma mi bo ną, u gboka ga mi, mi kun acin na

Kendona yekpe şişi nya Soko Nda yi na, nimi lilicijin nya Ruhu o, lo ba gbigba to mimi nya egia nya Jesu Kristi.

2 Timoti 2:21

Wun ayike eza la nimi u li ci kega be enya anazi nyi na, wun a fe dukun nya kunkun, na ali na, ci de anfani ebo etun nya tsoci o, ci ajin şiri lo 'ba etun wangi kpata.

1 Piteru 1:15

Ama kendoną wun na yi ye na yi lilici na, yetso ma ye fe eza lilici- zi nimi yiri edunfe ndondo o.
HOLINESS UNTO THE LORD
For He has visited and re- deemed His people, . . . to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve Him without fear, in holi- ness and righteousness before Him all the days of our life.”
—Luke 1:68b, 74, 75
Therefore, having these prom- ises, beloved, let us cleanse our- selves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holi- ness in the fear of God.
—2 Corinthians 7:1
Finally then, brethren, we urge and exhort in the Lord Jesus that you should abound more and
more, just as you received from us how you ought to walk and to please God; for you know what commandments we gave you through the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of God, your sanctifica- tion: that you should abstain from sexual immorality; that each of you should know how to pos- sess his own vessel in sanctifica- tion and honor. For God did not call us to uncleanness, but in holi- ness. —1 Thessalonians 4:1-4, 7
But as He who called you is ho- ly, you also be holy in all your con- duct, because it is written, “Be ho- ly, for I am holy.” —1 Peter 1:15, 16
LILICIJIN YA TSOCI

41

Hibrucizi 13:12

gazi: yekodacizi, akika, wawazi, a

Ebogabo Jesu ma, na wun a la a gbinka nimi u bo a. ezazi li be egia nyi nya wuntso ną, u jin azaba zunma 'ba misun o.

Efasuscizi 1:4; 4:24

Kendoną u tsa yi nimi u bo bed- zo a ci la gboko nya yize şişi na, kpata. ebo yi ga fe lilici to bambe lefi nyi yita u bo nimi cincin o: ye ci la eza woro fa, na yi ke Soko na ebo na a jin u nimi eli gasikiya to lili nya gasikiya o na.

Isaiah 35:8

To yekoko a da bo, to yekogi, a a yi u Yeko nya eli lilici; eza sika a da wun a; ama wun a da bo ya eza

1 John 1:9

Wun ayike yi ga ye lefi yizi na, u yi eza aminci, to gasikiyadeci na wun a jin yi gafara lefi yizi na; to na wun a la yi li be eli dede nyi na

2 Piteru 3:11

Daga na enya anazi kpata ga azun ya aninga na, eza yiri kici u gonyi na ye a fe nimi eli lilici kpata to gbigba Soko o na o?

Hibrucizi 12:14

Lamitu lafiya be 'za kpata nyi, to eli lilici, gama bambe wunciņ nyi eza ndondo a le Tsoci ye a.

42

HOLINESS UNTO THE LORD 41
   Therefore Jesus also, that He might sanctify the people with His own blood, suffered outside the gate. —Hebrews 13:12
Just as He chose us in Him be- fore the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and with- out blame before Him in love, . . . and that you put on the new man which was created according to God, in righteousness and true ho- liness. —Ephesians 1:4; 4:24
A highway shall be there, and a road, and it shall be called the Highway of Holiness. The un- clean shall not pass over it, but it shall be for others. Whoever walks the road, although a fool, shall not go astray. —Isaiah 35:8
If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. —1 John 1:9
Therefore, since all these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness.
—2 Peter 3:11
Pursue peace with all men, and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord. —Hebrews 12:14
Give unto the LORD the glory due to His name; worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness.
—Psalm 29:2
EZA NAZI ASE BE RUHU LILICI NYI NA

Luke 11:13 Wun ayike ye na yi eli dededeci- zi na, kpe kendona ye a la enya wangizi ya egi yezi na; bele na dokun ga acin na Nda ye na da sa- ma o na a la Ruhu Lilici ya eza nazi ba be u nyi na o?

Etun Nya Tuncizi 4:31 Kami na a jin aduwa ani ną,

'ba na a ayeka fi na wun adu; kpata a ma ase be Ruhu Lilici nyi, a ci gaga Soko be nyagbantu nyi.

Ezekiel 36:27

Mi a la ruhu mi da nimi ye bo, ci a jin ye ye daza da gami mizi o, ye ma a lagwasun siriya mizi, ye ci jin a.

Romicizi 8:9

Ama ye da nimi naka bo a, ama sayi nimi ruhu o, wun ayike de Ruhu nya Soko efedun da nimi ye bo na. Ama wun ayike eza de Ruhu nya Kristi a na, u jin nya wun a.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 1:8a. Ama ye a de yiko go, kami na Ruhu Lilici ga acin kpe ye na: ye ma a jin erijinci mizi.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 11:24a Gama u yi eza guru, u ma aşe be Ruhu Lilici nyi to be yiyakpe nyi.

Etun Nya Tuncizi 13:52 Ezazunmazi ase be ninma nyi, to be Ruhu Lilici nyi.
3:52

LTE

43
SPIRIT-FILLED MEN
“If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask Him!” —Luke 11:13
And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken; and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. —Acts 4:31
“I will put My Spirit within you and cause you to walk in My stat- utes, and you will keep My judg- ments and do them.”
—Ezekiel 36:27 But you are not in the flesh but
in the Spirit, if indeed the Spirit of God dwells in you. Now if any- one does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not His. —Romans 8:9
“But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come up- on you; and you shall be witnesses to Me.” —Acts 1:8a
For he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith.
—Acts 11:24a And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. —Acts 13:52 And do not be drunk with wine, in which is dissipation; but be
filled with the Spirit.
—Ephesians 5:18

ALIKAWOLI WANGIZI YA KRISTIANZI

Zabura 34:18

Tsoci tsoba eza nyagbandidaci-

zi, U ci bo a ya nazi nyagban a agba na.

Isaiah 66:2

Gamasi egwa mi jin enya anazi kpata....acinga Tsoci ga o: ama mi a la 'ye lo 'ba bagi nana, wun na yi walajinci ci adakpia eba ruhu o na, to na ekun naka ebo ega mi bo na.

Marku 9:23

Jesu ga ya u, ga, Wun ayike we jin u wo na! Enya kpata ye jin ya eza na eyakpe na.

1 Piteru 4:12, 13 Ye ezaciņcincizi, u ga ka ye ye ma, na sunga na woną na da

tatacin ye bo na, na ebe tsun ye ci ema ye cinle na ke enya yeka be de ye na ma: ama daga na ye yi emapacizi nya azabazi nya Kristi na, ye manin; ebo eba elatu nya cinwon u bo ma ye a manin be ninma nyi na dokuṇ na.

Elatu 21:4

Wun a la giye ndondo wun ya eye a bo; tsutsu a da bo be a; to nyagbanta a da bo a, ko egiti, ko eta da bo be a: enya mafarizi agoga.

Zabura 37:3

Wo kpetso Tsoci, wo ci 'o jin en- ya wangi; Acin we a fedun da kin bo, we ci a de enya gi o.

44
WONDERFUL PROMISES TO CHRISTIANS 43
The LORD is near to those who have a broken heart, and saves such as have a contrite spirit.
—Psalm 34:18 “For all those things My hand has made, and all those things ex- ist,” says the LORD. “But on this one will I look: on him who is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who
trembles at My word.”
—Isaiah 66:2
Jesus said to him, “If you can believe, all things are possible to him who believes.” —Mark 9:23
Beloved, do not think it strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you; but rejoice
to the extent that you partake of Christ’s sufferings, that when His glory is revealed, you may also be glad with exceeding joy.
—1 Peter 4:12, 13
“And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes; there shall be no more death, nor sorrow, nor crying; and there shall be no more pain, for the former things have passed away.” —Revelation 21:4
Trust in the Lord, and do good; dwell in the land, and feed on His faithfulness. –Psalm 37:3
“But seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you.” —Matthew 6:33
ALIKAWOLI YA EZA NAZI DE MIMACINLE NA

Hiburcizi 2:18

Gamaşi daga na wuntso jiņ wala na a ma u cinle na, u jin u wo na wun a ce eza nazi a ema cinle na

wu na.

Romicizi 16:20a

To Soko nya lafiya a la Șetan ba ya tako bici ye bo toşi.

Zabura 34:19

Walazi nya eza gasikiya dokun re: Ama Tsoci ewa u dzun nimi a bo kpata.

Isaiah 43:2

Kami na we alo nuwonzi na, mi a da be we nyi; to na we alo nu- wonjecizi taru na, a a za wo kpe a:

kami na wo daza alo ena na, ena a po we a; u ma a ke 'na eba wo bo a.

Romicizi 8:28

Yi ma kpeteke enya kpata ake- ba elotun aliheri ya eza nazi yebo Soko na, wuncin yi ya eza nazi u yi be gangani be wuwa u nyi na.

1 Korinticizi 10:13

Mimaciņle ndondo be tsun ye a, afe dozi na eza wangi go wo na: ama Soko de aminci, wun a lugwa a ma ye cinle ga na ye go wo a na a; ama kami na mimacinle ga be na, wun a jin yeko nya gwaga na ye a go u wo na.

PROMISES TO THE TEMPTED
For in that He Himself has suf- fered, being tempted, He is able to aid those who are tempted.
—Hebrews 2:18
And the God of peace will crush Satan under your feet shortly.
—Romans 16:20a
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow you. When you walk through the fire, you shall not be burned. —Isaiah 43:2a
No temptation has overtaken you except such as is common to man; but God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted be-
yond what you are able, but with the temptation will also make the way of escape, that you may be able to bear it.—1 Corinthians 10:13
Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the LORD delivers him out of them all. —Psalm 34:19
And we know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are the called according to His pur- pose. —Romans 8:28
For we do not have a High Priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin. —Hebrews 4:15
ALIKAWOLIZI YA NASARADECIZI

Elatu 3:5

45

wun a dzun baga o be a: mi a ka kaye nya Soko mi da u, to kaye nya banin nya Soko mi, Jerusalem woro, na ecin be nimi sama o daga eba Soko mi bo na, to kaye woro

Eza na ga de nasara na, acinga a a fa u tufuwa bokunzi o; mi a la kaye u nu ya, nimi litafi nya rayi bo kponyi a, mi ma a ye kaye u yita Nda mi bo, to yita malayika mitso. uzi o.

Elatu 3:21

Eza na ga de nasara na, mi a ya u yeda na wun a fedun ta esadunfe 'tsu mi bo be mi nyi na, kendoną mitso ma de nasara, mi ci fedun ta esadunfe 'tsu u bo be Nda mi nyi na.

Elatu 3:12

Eza na ga de nasara na, mi a la u ze ekpo nimi kata nya Soko mi bo,

Elatu 21:7

Eza na a de nasara na, wun a gi enya anazi 'gun; mi a fe Soko u, wun a fe egi bagi mi.

Elatu 2:7

Eza na de tukpa na, lugwa u wo 'nya na Ruhu ega ya ena lilicizi na. Eza na ga de nasara na, mi a ya u na wun a gi nya cigban nya rayi, na da nimi Paradise nya Soko o na
3:52

46

LTE

PROMISES TO OVERCOMERS 45
“He who overcomes shall inher- it all things, and I will be his God and he shall be My son.”
—Revelation 21:7
“He who overcomes, I will make him a pillar in the temple of My God, and he shall go out no more. And I will write on him the name of My God and the name of the city of My God, the New Jeru- salem, which comes down out of heaven from My God. And I will write on him My new name.”
—Revelation 3:12
“He who overcomes shall be clothed in white garments, and I will not blot out his name from the Book of Life; but I will con-
fess his name before My Father and before His angels.”
—Revelation 3:5 “To him who overcomes I will grant to sit with Me on My throne, as I also overcame and sat down with My Father on His throne.” —Revelation 3:21
“He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes I will give to eat from the tree of life, which is in the midst of the Paradise of God.” —Revelation 2:7
“And he who overcomes, and keeps My works until the end, to him I will give power over the na- tions.” —Revelation 2:26

SOKO GAGA YA YI ETI YAWOLA O 1 Korinticizi 7:10, 11

nyacidaci: ama wun ayike eba u ga atsu na, wun afo be ataura

Ama mi egaga ya zezi lo yawo ani na, ama u yi mi a, sayi Tsoci, nyi... ga, Nyizagi ga la eba u ya ma (ama wun ayike u ga la u ya na, u ga pa yawo be ma, afe, u be la giaria jin be eba u nyi); to eba ga la nyimi u ya ma.

Romicizi 7:2, 3

Gamaşi nyizagi na de eba na, ataura la u pa be eba u nyi kami na eba u da rayi o na; ama wun ayike eba u ga atsu na, wun afo be ataura nyi nya eba. Ebogabo, wun ayike kami na eba u da bo na u da tsun bagi ndoci na, a a yi u

Luke 16:18

Eza ndondo na la nyimi u ya ci pa yawo be eza ndoci nyi na, wun edanyaci: to eza ndondo na a pa yawo be nyizagi u nyi na eba u la lugwa na, wun edanyaci.

Mattiu 5:32

Ama mi ga ya ye, ga, eza ndon- do na la nyimi u ya na, afe ebo şiankala bo, wun ela u jiņ nyacidaci: to eza ndondo na a pa yawo be u nyi zunma na eza la u ya na, wun edanyaci.
GOD SPEAKS TO US ABOUT DIVORCE
Now to the married I command, yet not I but the Lord: A wife is not to depart from her husband. But even if she does depart, let her remain unmarried or be recon- ciled to her husband. And a hus- band is not to divorce his wife. A wife is bound by law as long as her husband lives; but if her husband dies, she is at liberty to be mar- ried to whom she wishes, only in the Lord.—1 Corinthians 7:10, 11, 39
For the woman who has a hus- band is bound by the law to her husband as long as he lives. But if the husband dies, she is released from the law of her husband. So then if, while her husband lives,
she marries another man, she will be called an adulteress; but if her husband dies, she is free from that law, so that she is no adulter- ess, though she has married an- other man. —Romans 7:2, 3
“Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adul- tery; and whoever marries her who is divorced from her husband commits adultery.” —Luke 16:18
“But I say to you that whoever divorces his wife for any reason except sexual immorality causes her to commit adultery; and who- ever marries a woman who is di- vorced commits adultery.”
—Matthew 5:32

BIBE BACI NYA KRISTI

John 14:3

Wun ayike mi a da la 'ba jin şiri ya ye na, mi a be be, be go ye be 'ba mitso; ebo 'ba na mi da na, ye a da baga o ma.

Elatu 3:11

Mi ebe vanyi: wo lagwasun 'nya na wo de na gbannyi, ebo 'za ndo- ndo ga go kraun nya we ma.

Marku 8:38

Gama eza ndondo na a sunzun- ye ebo mi bo, to ebo ega mizi o, tatacin nyacidacizi to eza dede na- nazi o na, Egi nya eza ma a sunzunye ebo u bo, kami na u ga be be cinwon nyi nya Nda u, to be malayika lilicizi nyi na.

Mattiu 24:30

47

Kanga rikpe nya Egi nya eza ga atula nimi sama o: kanga ezi kama kpata nya yize a a tigi, a a le Egi nya eza ye ebe nimi parazi nya sama o, be kagbo nyi to be cinwon nyi dokun.

Jamesi 5:8

Ye jin hankuri ma; la nyagban yezi gboka: gamaşi bibe nya Tsoci atsoba.

Mattiu 24:27

Gama kendoną sama edzwą eyi- lazin o, a ci le u ye nimi eyilozun o na; acinga ma bibe nya Egi nya eza a be jin o.

48

JESUS CHRIST WILL RETURN TO EARTH 47
“And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and re- ceive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also.”
—John 14:3
“Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.” —Matthew 24:30
“For whoever is ashamed of Me and My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him the Son of Man also will be ashamed when He comes in the glory of His Father. . . . ” —Mark 8:38
Beloved, now we are children of God; and it has not yet been re- vealed what we shall be, but we know that when He is revealed, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is. And everyone who has this hope in Him purifies himself, just as He is pure.
—1 John 3:2, 3
“Therefore you also be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.”
—Luke 12:40
“For the Son of Man will come in the glory of His Father with His angels, and then He will re- ward each according to his works.” —Matthew 16:27
BIBE BACI NYA KRISTI

Etun Nya Tuncizi 1:11 A ci ga, Ye Galilicizi, ebokinya- bo ye egikinni ecin sama le o? Je su nana, na a go eba ye bo la da sa- mą ani ną, kendona ye le u ye elo sama na, acinga ma wun a be 0.

Luke 21:27

Kanga a a le Egi nya eza ye ebe nimi para nya sama o, be kagbo nyi to be cinwon nyi dokun.

1 John 3:2, 3

Yegi cineincizi, gbani yi yi egizi nya Soko, to enya na yi ga aze na u la tula ani a. Yi kpeteke wun ayike u ga adzun be na, yi ga ajin dozi u; gama yi a le u ye kendona u yi na.

To eza ndondo na de yetu nana be u nyi na, wun ela nimi u jin lilici, kendona u yi lilici ną.

Elatu 16:15

(Cinle, mi ebe ke yigbeci na. Alu- barika da be eza nyi na ela 'ye da 'ba ci etswa ewo uzi na, ebo u ga daza yavun, a ci le zunyesun u ye mą).

Luke 12:40

Ye jin şiri ma: gama kami ga na ye ekpaye a na, Egi nya eza a be o.

Mattiu 16:27

Gama Egi nya eza a be be cin- won nyi nya Nda u, to be malayi- ka uzi nyi: kanga wun a la ndondo kendona etun uzi yi na. ya eza
3:52

LTE

48

JESUS CHRIST WILL RETURN TO EARTH 47
“And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and re- ceive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also.”
—John 14:3
“Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.” —Matthew 24:30
“For whoever is ashamed of Me and My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him the Son of Man also will be ashamed when He comes in the glory of His Father. . . . ” —Mark 8:38
Beloved, now we are children of God; and it has not yet been re- vealed what we shall be, but we know that when He is revealed, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is. And everyone who has this hope in Him purifies himself, just as He is pure.
—1 John 3:2, 3
“Therefore you also be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.”
—Luke 12:40
“For the Son of Man will come in the glory of His Father with His angels, and then He will re- ward each according to his works.” —Matthew 16:27
BIBE BACI NYA KRISTI

Etun Nya Tuncizi 1:11 A ci ga, Ye Galilicizi, ebokinya- bo ye egikinni ecin sama le o? Je- su nana, na a go eba ye bo la da sa- ma ani na, kendona ye le u ye elo

To eza ndondo na de yetu nana be u nyi na, wun ela nimi u jin lilici, kendoną u yi lilici na.

Luke 21:27

(Cinle, mi ebe ke yigbeci na. Alu- sama na, acinga ma wun a be o. barika da be eza nyi na ela 'ye da 'ba ci etswa ewo uzi na, ebo u ga daza yavun, a ci le zunyesun u ye ma).

Elatu 16:15

Kanga a a le Egi nya eza ye ebe nimi para nya sama o, be kagbo nyi to be cinwon nyi dokun.

1 John 3:2, 3

Yegi cincincizi, gbani yi yi egizi nya Soko, to enya na yi ga aze na u la tula ani a. Yi kpeteke wun ayike u ga adzun be na, yi ga ajin dozi u; gama yi a le u ye kendona u yi ną.

Gama Egi nya eza a be be cin- won nyi nya Nda u, to be malayi- ka uzi nyi: kanga wun a la ya eza ndondo kendona etun uzi yi na.

Mattiu 6:9-15

"Jesu ga", Ebogabo aninga ye a jin aduwa o: Nda yi na da sama o na, Kaye we lilici u yi o. Sarota we u be. Yi jin enya na we wa na nimi yize o, kendona a jin u nimi sama o na. Ya yi enyagici yi nyina, nya nyina. Jin yi gafara lefi yi, ken- dona yi jin eza nazi jin yi lefi gafara na. Ga la yi lo da nimi mi- maciņle o ma, ama ke yi ga be Ibili nyi. Gama wun ayike ye jin ezazi gafara lefi azi na, Nda ye na da sama o na, wun a jin ye gafara ma. Ama wun ayike ye jin ezazi gafara ye gafara lefi yezi a.

JESUS CHRIST WILL RETURN TO EARTH 47
“And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and re- ceive you to Myself; that where I am, there you may be also.”
—John 14:3
“Then the sign of the Son of Man will appear in heaven, and then all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.” —Matthew 24:30
“For whoever is ashamed of Me and My words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him the Son of Man also will be ashamed when He comes in the glory of His Father. . . . ” —Mark 8:38
Beloved, now we are children of God; and it has not yet been re- vealed what we shall be, but we know that when He is revealed, we shall be like Him, for we shall see Him as He is. And everyone who has this hope in Him purifies himself, just as He is pure.
—1 John 3:2, 3
“Therefore you also be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.”
—Luke 12:40
“For the Son of Man will come in the glory of His Father with His angels, and then He will re- ward each according to his works.” —Matthew 16:27
ECA NYA DOKO

Luke 21:33

Sama to kin a goga: ama ega mizi a a goga kponyi a.

2 Piteru 1:21 Gamaşi egalaşişi ndondo be be wuwa za wangi nyi a: ama na Ruhu Lilici la ezazi sasa na, a gaga daga eba Soko o.

2 Timoti 3:16

Rubutu lilici ndondo na Soko yi 'fe fi na de anfani ya egawu, to ya ewunna, to ya yiyejin, to ya foro

Luke 12:40 Ye jin şiri ma: gama kami ga na ye ekpaye a na, Egi nya eza a be o.

Mattiu 16:27

na da nimi eli gasikiya o na. Zabura 119:105 Ega we yi fitila ya bici mizi, To lefi ași a na, to Nda ye wun a jin

bayetin ya yeko mi.

Ganagawin. Dibo. Shitako. Akanda. Hyabe. Adyakty ibara, Eggan. Published in numerous languages by World Missionary Press as God supplies funds in answer to prayer. If you would like more copies for careful distribution, write in English to:

Nife. Anupe. Nupeizi. Ampexi. Nigeria Anupecways. Tapa. Anuperi. Tappah.

Niger Biddu Kantugora Minna Kwala Lafia Pategi Igbomena-Ekiti Agare-Lupar Kogi Pekina

Nupe text is used by permission of United Bible Societies, Africa Regional Centre, Nairobi.

Takipa.

213 Nupe Printed in USA

NUP

48 THE WORD OF GOD
“Heaven and earth will pass away, but My words will by no means pass away.” —Luke 21:33
For prophecy never came by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. —2 Peter 1:21
All Scripture is given by in- spiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for cor- rection, for instruction in
PRAY AND FORGIVE
“In this manner, therefore, pray: Our Father in heaven, hal- lowed be Your name. Your king- dom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And for- give us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. For Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.”
—Matthew 6:9-15
righteousness.
Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
—Psalm 119:105
