Surah 84:1,   When the sky is rent asunder,Sokoe zhikuti be lokacina sanma'gabea lafilafi nan
Surah 84:2,  And hearkens to (the Command of) its Lord and it must needs (do so);-,Gangani be izini yan tsoci uyin kendoe u-- yin nan.
Surah 84:3,  And when the earth is flattened out,Sokoe zhikuti be lokacina agabea kin (to yanna kpeti kin-bonan) ta cici pa'arae nan.
Surah 84:4 ,  And casts forth what is within it and becomes (clean) empty,Kanga gancin kin ciga yanazhifi nin yan'ubo kpa'atana ceta fili-o ciga'ake foto e.
Surah 84:5,  And hearkens to (the Command of) its Lord- and it must needs (do so);- (then will come Home the full reality).,Ganganni be izini yan tsoci uyin kendoe u-- yin nan.
Surah 84:6 ,      O thou man! Verily thou art ever toiling on towards thy Lord- painfully toiling- but thou shalt meet Him.,Ya'a wyoe zawangi akika wodan mini jin jin bawtao natsu man woa dzunboa har da fona wo'ada gunbe Tsoci oyin nan.
Surah 84:7 ,   Then he who is given his Record in his right hand,Amma'ade zaenindondo na'agabe' litafi etun layau be gwalou yin nan.
Surah 84:8,   Soon will his account be taken by an easy reckoning,A-gaugba egagba natso yi fifanci nan.
Surah 84:8,   Soon will his account be taken by an easy reckoning,A-gaugba egagba natso yi fifanci nan.
Surah 84:9   ,And he will turn to his people rejoicing!,Kanga ucin kezhe da'eba yegiwzhi be nimma'e.
Surah 84:10     ,But he who is given his Record behind his back-,Amma'ade zaenindondo na'aga litafi etun layau egwa zunao nan.
Surah 84:11,  Soon will he cry for perdition,Zawuncinzhi a kpogun ebo azaba hallaka na aleyenan.
Surah 84:12 ,And he will enter a Blazing Fire.,Uma'ada agan dan ena yan sa'irao.
Surah 84:13   , Truly did he go about among his people rejoicing!,(Akika kamina u dan izheonan) ufe manini gun ta-cin iya'iluzhio ebo yan izhe nan gwa'u bo nao.
Surah 84:14  ,  Truly did he think that he would not have to return (to Us)!,Akika ufe jin zatto ko wyun'a zhebae da tsun Sokoa.
Surah 84:15 ,    Nay nay! for his Lord was (ever) watchful of him!,Akika Soko ecin zaenindondo le (Be iri enanzandondo gae jin nan).
Surah 84:16,  So I do call to witness the ruddy glow of Sunset;,(Soko-gan) Miezhikuti be igidi yan shafaki. ("Shafaki igidi uyio na'ajin u-tinya ba'acina igidi ga'alomi na. Shafaki nan nan eyi lo'ozun bo u kpeo. Sai uga akpanya sarauyin kanga sallah risha ejin'o).
Surah 84:17 , The Night and its Homing;,Soko ezhikuti ganni be yeshi be nyannazhi yeshi kuyekan kpa'ata nan.
Surah 84:18  ,And the Moon in her fullness:,Sokoe zhikuti be etswa'e lokacinauga'anan sarauyin nan.
Surah 84:19  , Ye shall surely travel from stage to stage.,Akika yeya'a fe dzun tinya dangan hali ninio lo hali woro.(Acinga ga hali edunfe yizhe yio wogae dzun nnao wofe lo-woro).
Surah 84:20   ,What then is the matter with them that they believe not-,Ki jin'ao acie ya gaskiya'a yin'o
Surah 84:21 ,    And when the Qur´an is read to them they fall not prostrate,Kandondo nama agaegba alkur'anu ya'ana e'dakpya ya Sokoa.
Surah 84:22   ,But on the contrary the Unbelievers reject (it).,Akika de kafirizhi ajin'a fe yi aya' Soko ganman nan.
Surah 84:23 ,  But Allah has full knowledge of what they secrete (in their breasts),Akika Soko dekpikpe yan nazhi asodan eko giazhio nan. (Yangban azhionan).
Surah 84:24,  So announce to them a Penalty Grievous,Ebo acin'o ( Annabi) ya'a la'abari yan azaba ba tan na.
 Surah 84:25 ,       Except to those who believe and work righteous deeds: For them is a Reward that will never fail.,Saidai zanazhi ga imani jin-na acie kezhe lotun wangi wangizhi na egagba na'azoanan wun'ajin tabbata ya'a.
