Surah 107:1,    Seest thou one who denies the Judgment (to come),Ngba wyo le za nae yi adini (egba ga yan alkiyami) ganmana na ye
Surah 107:2 ,  Then such is the (man) who repulses the orphan (with harshness),Za wuncin gayi zanae yi ba ba ekungizhi ,nao.
Surah 107:3  ,  And encourages not the feeding of the indigent.,Umae din zawangizhi yangban eti yangici laya talakazhi boa.
Surah 107:4, So woe to the worshippers,Azaba yan robonkpe ti wun'ajin tabbata ya salla jinci ndocizhi.
Surah 107:5   , Who are neglectful of their prayers,Za nazhie jin sallah kendoe baa nan kamina ga baa nan.
Surah 107:6  ,Those who (want but) to be seen (of men),Za nanzhie lo'tun guru ebo zawangizhi'a leye na
.Surah 107:7 ,But refuse (to supply) (even) neighbourly needs.,A mae la eyan taimakozhi kan zawangizhi na.
Surah 108:1 ,  To thee have We granted the Fount (of Abundance).,Akika (ya Annabi) yi twarya edu nyan alkawsara ya wyoe
Surah 108:2  ,Therefore to thy Lord turn in Prayer and Sacrifice.,Ebo acin'o jin sallah ebo Tsoci wyo bo wyo mao zun dabbazhi (efo layyae).
Surah 108:3   ,For he who hateth thee he will be cut off (from Future Hope).,Akika zanazhi'e na wyo vo nan a ga yi zanazhi de egungicizhi'a nao.
Surah 108:3 ,  For he who hateth thee he will be cut off (from Future Hope).,Akika zanazhi'e na wyo vo nan a ga yi zanazhi de egungicizhi'a nao.
Surah 109:1 ,  Say : O ye that reject Faith!,Annabi gangan: ya 'ye kafirinn zhi'i.
Surah 109:2   ,I worship not that which ye worship,Akika mi'ajin bauta yan kuti nazhi ye ye jin bauta ya na'a.
Surah 109:3  ,  Nor will ye worship that which I worship.,Yetso (kafirizhi) ma'ajin bauta yan Soko na mie jin bauta ya na'a.
Surah 109:3  ,  Nor will ye worship that which I worship.,Yetso (kafirizhi) ma'ajin bauta yan Soko na mie jin bauta ya na'a.
Surah 109:4 ,   And I will not worship that which ye have been wont to worship,Mi tso ma'ajin bauta ya yanazhi yejin bauta ya na'a.
Surah 109:5    ,Nor will ye worship that which I worship.,Yetso ma'ajin bauta ya Soko na mie jin bautan ya na'a.
Surah 109:6,   To you be your Way and to me mine.,Ye (ka'firizhi) ye yi be addini ye yin mitso ma yibe addini mi yin.
Surah 110:1   ,  When comes the Help of Allah and Victory,kakunna taimako Soko ga dabe gani be eko-kpe nan.
Surah 110:2 ,     And thou dost see the people enter Allah´s Religion in crowds,Kanga wyo'ale zawangizhiye a'fe gandan addini yan Soko'o jama'a jama'azhi.
Surah 110:3 ,     Celebrate the praises of thy Lord and pray for His Forgiveness: For He is Oft-Returning (in Grace and Mercy).,Boacin'O fe-liSoko tsa-tsa yin womao dokun be yebo jin'u-yin. akika Soko Etsu nae fa be wuzhi'ina uyio.
