Surah 15:1   ,   A. L. R. These are the Ayats of Revelation- of a Qur´an that makes things clear.,ALIF LAM RA Wuncin zhi aya yan litafi zhi ayio be Alkuranu-y na'atu la gbangbae na.
Surah 15:2 ,     Again and again will those who disbelieve wish that they had bowed (to Allah´s will) in Islam.,Lokacina dokun na kafirizhia jin afe jin guri gan egan:egan gan musulumizhi ayia.
Surah 15:3 ,     Leave them alone to enjoy (the good things of this life) and to please themselves: let (false) hope amuse them: soon will knowledge (undeceive them).,A'yaafeagi yan'aza ama'a fea wo-man gurizhi mau fe ujin'a shagala'u zabe le yin abe de kpikpe.
Surah 15:4  ,     Never did We destroy a population that had not a term decreed and assigned beforehand.,Alkarya ndoci ma danbo nayi jin hallaka na'a sai de wyoa tsun'a be litafi na'a tula nae.
Surah 15:5    ,  Neither can a people anticipate its term nor delay it.,Ama de alumma na'a shi lokaci na Soko bayau na dzo naa amade na'a pa ta ya a-- lokaciu gan na'a.
Surah 15:6 ,      They say: "O thou to whom the Message is being revealed! truly thou art mad (or possessed)!,Aci gan;ya wyo na acin alkuranu be ya na! Hakika wyoe ilanduci wyo yio.
Surah 15:7,       "Why bringest thou not angels to us if it be that thou hast the Truth",Ki'I kan wyo ci be ya yi be malaikazhi yin'a yin'o wun'ayi gan mini eza gaskiyazhi bowyo dan'o nao
Surah 15:8 ,       We send not the angels down except for just cause: if they came (to the ungodly) behold! no respite would they have!,(Soko ci ya azhe gan ); yi yie cin malaikazhi be acin kawanyin'a saide be gaskiya lawuy (be azaba jin'y) Gancin ma uga'a fe acin to aapata ya'a bea.
Surah 15:9 ,     We have without doubt sent down the Message; and We will assuredly guard it (from corruption).,Hakika Yiga cin alkuranu beo hakika Yiga ma'a tswa wun'o.
Surah 15:10,      We did send messengers before thee amongst the religious sects of old:,Hakika ma yitun (Tucizhi) tun shi wyo dzu be dzu dan mini alumma na zhi yi yan mafarizhi na.
Surah 15:11 ,      But never came a messenger to them but they mocked him.,Amade Tuci nduci na'a be ya'a na'a sai agaafe zanazhie lau mi na.
Surah 15:12,    Even so do we let it creep into the hearts of the sinners -,Acinga ga ma Yia jin Yi la alkuranua gandan yangban lefi jinci zhi bo.
Surah 15:13  ,    That they should not believe in the (Message); but the ways of the ancients have passed away.,Aya gaskiya be u yin'a hakika ma ekpa yan hallaka za mafarizhi (nazhi gbotika be Sokoe na) wun'a -- gan'ani (atso ma le ye)
Surah 15:14  ,      Even if We opened out to them a gate from heaven and they were to continue (all day) ascending therein,Kadaa ma Yi ga eko kpe yaa dagan sanmao har afe acie gun lo bo.
Surah 15:15 ,      They would only say: "Our eyes have been intoxicated: Nay we have been bewitched by sorcery.,"A'gangan: "Ngan a dan yi eye yi dan; a-a ade jin yi shiri jin (eyan ma uyio).
Surah 15:16,      It is We Who have set out the zodiacal signs in the heavens and made them fair-seeming to (all) beholders;,Hakika ma Yila tswangizhi fi sanmao Yiciu pa nin ya za nazhie cin'u le na.
Surah 15:17,    And (moreover) We have guarded them from every cursed devil:,Yi mau tswa dagan egun shetan na yi eza cice yaci na.
Surah 15:18,      But any that gains a hearing by stealth is pursued by a flaming fire bright (to see).,Saide za na ga yi gan-wo miniabo na to ena sisaci ci ga emi tu'u gancin.
Surah 15:19  ,        And the earth We have spread out (like a carpet); set thereon mountains firm and immovable; and produced therein all kinds of things in due balance.,Kin ma yiu ta cici Yicia takun wancikozhi ce ta eti ubo. Yicia yangici sunsun iri ndondo la'atinya na ma yibe tsunwan'e na.
Surah 15:20  ,     And We have provided therein means of subsistence- for you and for those for whose sustenance ye are not responsible.,Yi cia kaya nazhi yega wo ma izhe na la'adanbo yaye to yan zanazhi ujin ye ye ya'a arziki na.
Surah 15:21  ,        And there is not a thing but its (sources and) treasures (inexhaustible) are with Us; but We only send down thereof in due and ascertainable measures.,Amade yandocia saide na edzunba arzikiu be yi yin udan'ona. Yimae cin'ubea sai de be gwargwado tsunwan nayi kpikpeci na.
Surah 15:22    ,       And We send the fecundating winds then cause the rain to descend from the sky therewith providing you with water (in abundance) though ye are not the guardians of its stores.,Yi ma kezhe'a efezhi tun acie la wan-nuwan ya girgijezhi gancin yicie du le zhin dagan sanmao Yiciu laa'ya ye fin ye made edzunba wun'a.
Surah 15:23 ,    And verily it is We Who give life and Who give death: it is We Who remain inheritors (after all else passes away).,Hakika ma Yi gae dan yan rayio Yi ga mae wu rayio Yiga ma'a gi gun yandondo.Surah 15:23     And verily it is We Who give life and Who give death: it is We Who remain inheritors (after all else passes away).Hakika ma Yi gae dan yan rayio Yi ga mae wu rayio Yiga ma'a gi gun yandondo.
Surah 15:24,      To Us are known those of you who hasten forward and those who lag behind.Hakika ma yikpe zanazhi -- gan'ani mini yebo na ye. ,Hakika ma yikpe to zanazhia be gba'a zunma na ye.
Surah 15:25,      Assuredly it is thy Lord Who will gather them together: for He is perfect in Wisdom and Knowledge.,Hakika Tsoci wyoe wyun ga'a san'a kabario ci kua ye kan'o. Hakika Soko Etsu hikima uyio etsu ilimi uyio.
Surah 15:26 ,      We created man from sounding clay from mud moulded into shape;,Hakika ma Yi jin alitta zawangi dagan egun'o dagan edo-zhiko na'a zhegba (cie mantswan na).
Surah 15:27,      And the Jinn race We had created before from the fire of a scorching wind,Aljani ma Yi jin alittau jin shi jinjin zawangi dzo dagan ena na yi pipoci nao.
Surah 15:28  ,         Behold! thy Lord said to the angels: "I am about to create man from sounding clay from mud moulded into shape;,Wyo mao pa lokaci na Tsoci wyoe gan be malaikazhi gan: Hakika miajin alitta zawangi dagan edo nayi mantswanna.
Surah 15:29   ,     "When I have fashioned him (in due proportion) and breathed into him of My spirit fall ye down in obeisance unto him.",To miga beujin ucia jin daidai Micia efe be fiu dagan rayi Mibo to yea nikin zhizhi ye jin sujadae yau.
Surah 15:30 ,  So the angels prostrated themselves all of them together:,Malaikazhi kpata cia sujada jin bae nio.
Surah 15:31,      Not so Iblis: he refused to be among those who prostrated themselves.,Sai de Iblisu! Wyun'a navo na wyun'ajin sujada be zanazhie jin sujada nae.
Surah 15:32   ,    (Allah) said: "O Iblis! what is your reason for not being among those who prostrated themselves",(Soko) gan: "ya wyoe Iblisu! Kila wyo ci lo sujada-be zanazhie jin sujada na'a yin'o
Surah 15:33 ,         (Iblis) said: ",I am not one to prostrate myself to man whom Thou didst create from sounding clay from mud moulded into shape.",(Iblisu) ci gan: u-- yin ya mi na miajin sujada ya zawangi na wyo jin alittu dagan egun'o dagan edo nae zhegba na'a.
Surah 15:34,    (Allah) said: "Then get thee out from here; for thou art rejected accursed.,(Soko) gan: Tinya dagan miniubo (Aljannao) hakika eza cice yaci wyo yio.
Surah 15:35,     "And the curse shall be on thee till the day of Judgment.",Hakika ma emibo (Soko) ta eti wyo bo har da Efo Alkiyami
Surah 15:35 ,    "And the curse shall be on thee till the day of Judgment.",Hakika ma emibo (Soko) ta eti wyo bo har da Efo Alkiyami
Surah 15:36,     (Iblis) said: "O my Lord! give me then respite till the Day the (dead) are raised."(,Iblisu) gan: "Tsoci mi! pata ya mi har da fo na aga'a san zazhi kabario na.
Surah 15:37,   (Allah) said: "Respite is granted thee,(Soko) Ugan: To hakika ma wyo dan mini za nazhi a pata ya na.
Surah 15:38,   "Till the Day of the Time appointed.",Har da Efo na yi be lokaci kpikpeci na.
Surah 15:39    ,     (Iblis) said: "O my Lord! because Thou hast put me in the wrong I will make (wrong) fair-seeming to them on the earth and I will put them all in the wrong-,(Iblisu) ci gan: "Tsoci mi! Dagan na wyoa mi gbin'ani na mi ga etu dedezhi la'a panini fia kinbo hakika ma miga'gbin bae nio.
Surah 15:40  , "Except Thy servants among them sincere and purified (by Thy Grace).",Sai de mini wuzhi wyozhio nazhi yi lilicizhi na.
Surah 15:40 ,  "Except Thy servants among them sincere and purified (by Thy Grace).",Sai de mini wuzhi wyozhio nazhi yi lilicizhi na.
Surah 15:41  ,  (Allah) said: "This (way of My sincere servants) is indeed a way that leads straight to Me.,Soko gan: Nana ekpa uyio natso yi gboro na tswitswa uma eti mi bo utao.
Surah 15:42  ,        "For over My servants no authority shalt thou have except such as put themselves in the wrong and follow thee.",Hakika wuzhi Mizhi wyo de iko ndondo ta eti'aboa sai de na ga mi tu wyoe mini wawazhio na.
Surah 15:43 ,  And verily Hell is the promised abode for them all!,Hakika ma jahannama ga yi ezhe keba'a baeni bo.Surah 15:43   And verily Hell is the promised abode for them all!Hakika ma jahannama ga yi ezhe keba'a baeni bo.
Surah 15:44   ,    To it are seven gates: for each of those gates is a (special) class (of sinners) assigned.,Uyi be kpako gutwabae kpako ndondo ma yi be kansan ginganci (na kafirizhia fi na).
Surah 15:45,    The righteous (will be) amid gardens and fountains (of clear-flowing water).,Hakika zanazhie sundan Soko cie tswa'u na afi mini Aljannazhio be eye nuwan (managizhi).
Surah 15:46,  (Their greeting will be): "Enter ye here in peace and security.,"Egan dan bo be aminci'y eza tswitswaci zhi
Surah 15:47 ,        And We shall remove from their hearts any lurking sense of injury: (they will be) brothers (joyfully) facing each other on thrones (of dignity).,Yi cia yannazhi fi yangban'azhio yan nanvo na wa ya (acia zhe) yegi dozhi nazhi kpe ti gadoazhio cie baza na.
Surah 15:48,       There no sense of fatigue shall touch them nor shall they (ever) be asked to leave.,Egun (yan ebo) ndondo ma'a tswan'a miniuboa ama'a kuatinya boa.
Surah 15:49 ,    Tell My servants that I am indeed the Oft-forgiving Most Merciful;,Ya wuzhi Mizhi labari kede hakika Mi Etsu gafara Mi yio na Etsu yegun Mi yio na.
Surah 15:49  ,   Tell My servants that I am indeed the Oft-forgiving Most Merciful;,Ya wuzhi Mizhi labari kede hakika Mi Etsu gafara Mi yio na Etsu yegun Mi yio na.
Surah 15:50 ,   And that My Penalty will be indeed the most grievous Penalty.,Hakika ma azaba Mi gayi azaba natan nao.
Surah 15:51  , Tell them about the guests of Abraham.,Wyo mao ya'a labari eti ega Ibrahimuo.
Surah 15:52    ,    When they entered his presence and said "Peace!" He said "We feel afraid of you!",Kamina agandan ebaubo na aci gan: "Salamu (aminci ulau jin tabbata'uya wyoe) uci gan: "Hakika yiye sundan ye".
Surah 15:53 ,     They said: "Fear not! We give thee glad tidings of a son endowed with wisdom.",Aci gan: "Ga sundan ma hakika yie ya wyoe labari yangban fa be mima egi na'a yi kpikpe deci na.
Surah 15:54 ,      He said: "Do ye give me glad tidings that old age has seized me Of what then is your good news",Ugan: "Gbani yea ya mi bushara yangban fa be dide egi ala'ali ma eku kua lomi yin'a ni To kici ye gaa ya mi busharao.
Surah 15:55  ,    They said: "We give thee glad tidings in truth: be not then in despair!",Agan: "yidea wyo ya bushara yan gaskiyaa ni wyo mao ga'afe dan mini zanazhie ba kauna be yegun Sokoe na ma.
Surah 15:55 ,     They said: "We give thee glad tidings in truth: be not then in despair!"Agan: ",yidea wyo ya bushara yan gaskiyaa ni wyo mao ga'afe dan mini zanazhie ba kauna be yegun Sokoe na ma.
Surah 15:56  ,     He said: "And who despairs of the mercy of his Lord but such as go astray",Ugan: A ma de za na'a ba kauna be yegun Tsoci u yin naa sai de eza gbin gbin cizhi.
Surah 15:57,    Abraham said: "What then is the business on which ye (have come) O ye messengers (of Allah)",Ugan: kici ma ye be be yin'o ya ye Tucizhio
Surah 15:58 ,    They said: "We have been sent to a people (deep) in sin,Agan: hakika a tun yi tun-tun lo eba jama'a nazhi yi lefi jincizhi na.
Surah 15:59  ,   "Excepting the adherents of Lut: them we are certainly (charged) to save (from harm)- All -,Ban be iyali yan (Annabi) Lutuzhi Hakika Yiga'a wadzun bae nio.
Surah 15:60,     "Except his wife who We have ascertained will be among those who will lag behind.",Sai de yin miu. Hakika yia tsunwan alamariu la'a ni hakika udan mini zanazhia jin hallaka na.
Surah 15:61  ,  At length when the messengers arrived among the adherents of Lut,Kamina Tuciuzhi lo eba iyali (Annabi) Lutu na.
Surah 15:62  , He said: "Ye appear to be uncommon folk.",Ugan: yede jama'azhi yeyio na yi kpea yea na.
Surah 15:63     , They said: "Yea we have come to thee to accomplish that of which they doubt.,Agan: A'a yi be be ya wyoe be yan na jama'a yan wyo zhie jin kelo kezhin etiu bo na.
Surah 15:64,   "We have brought to thee that which is inevitably due and assuredly we tell the truth.,Yi ma be be ya wyoe be gaskiyae hakika ma eza gaskiyazhi Yi yio.
Surah 15:65 ,            "Then travel by night with thy household when a portion of the night (yet remains) and do thou bring up the rear: let no one amongst you look back but pass on whither ye are ordered.",Ebo acin'o a tinya dan zan'o be iyali wyozhi dan mini yeshio wyo mao la mio tua zunmao zaenindondo mau ga zhe ye lo zunma ma ye mae da bana Soko jin ye foro be yin na.
Surah 15:66,        And We made known this decree to him that the last remnants of those (sinners) should be cut off by the morning.,Yima'a hukunci jin yau gan u la mi-u-tu alamari wuncin zo ba zanazhi ma wun'ada zoba be asuba yin.
Surah 15:66 ,       And We made known this decree to him that the last remnants of those (sinners) should be cut off by the morning.,Yima'a hukunci jin yau gan u la mi-u-tu alamari wuncin zo ba zanazhi ma wun'ada zoba be asuba yin.
Surah 15:67 ,  The inhabitants of the city came in (mad) joy (at news of the young men).,Jama'a yan zhinin zhi cia tinya aci fe manin (be egazhi).
Surah 15:67,   The inhabitants of the city came in (mad) joy (at news of the young men).,Jama'a yan zhinin zhi cia tinya aci fe manin (be egazhi).
Surah 15:68  ,   Lut said: "These are my guests: disgrace me not:,Ugan: Hakika za nanazhi ega mizhi ayio ebo acin'o ega sun-mi zunye dan alamariabo ma.
Surah 15:69 ,  "But fear Allah and shame me not.",Ye mae sundan Soko ye mae ga nyin mi yangban ma.
Surah 15:70  ,  They said: "Did we not forbid thee (to speak) for all and sundry"Agan: Asha yi kan wyoe gan wyo ga fe -- ega zawangizhi be maa.
Surah 15:71     He said: "There are my daughters (to marry) if ye must act (so).",Ugan: Egi yinzagi mizhi dan na (ebe jin'a yawo) ye ga'a jin jin na.
Surah 15:71,     He said: "There are my daughters (to marry) if ye must act (so).",Ugan: Egi yinzagi mizhi dan na (ebe jin'a yawo) ye ga'a jin jin na.
Surah 15:72,    Verily by thy life (O Prophet) in their wild intoxication they wander in distraction to and fro.,(Malaikazhi gan) Yie zhi kuti be rayi wyo tsoe hakika afi mini pipeazhio acie ce za.
Surah 15:73,  But the (mighty) Blast overtook them before morning,Gancin kabara cia wan (be hallakae) kamina igidiela tinya na.
Surah 15:73 , But the (mighty) Blast overtook them before morning,Gancin kabara cia wan (be hallakae) kamina igidiela tinya na.
Surah 15:74   ,    And We turned (the cities) upside down and rained down on them brimstones hard as baked clay.,Yicia fitia zhegba ci daa kin. Yici dule takunzhi fia dagan ezun pipocizhio.
Surah 15:75,    Behold! in this are Signs for those who by tokens do understand,Hakika mini wuncin'o ayazhi danbo ya zanazhie la hankali tu yanzhi na.
Surah 15:76  ,And the (cities were) right on the high-road,Hakika alkarya wuncin ma u tati ekpa ndocio nayi tiyaci na.
Surah 15:77 ,   Behold! in this is a sign for those who believed,Hakika mini wuncin'o ayazhi danbo ya zanazhi yi muminizhi na.
Surah 15:78,    And the Companions of the Wood were also wrong-doers,Hakikama jama'a yan kin yan Aikata atso azwalumizhi ayio. (jama'a yan Annabi Shuaybu zhi).
Surah 15:79 ,   So We exacted retribution from them. They were both on an open highway plain to see,Yicia jin azaba Hakika ma kin gubaba wuncinzhi a kpe eti ekpa ndocio na'a tula na.
Surah 15:79 ,   So We exacted retribution from them. They were both on an open highway plain to see,Yicia jin azaba Hakika ma kin gubaba wuncinzhi a kpe eti ekpa ndocio na'a tula na.
Surah 15:80 ,   The Companions of the Rocky Tract also rejected the messengers,Hakika jama'a yan Hijruzhi (Samuduzhi) atso'a Tuciazhi yi ganmana.
Surah 15:81,    We sent them Our Signs but they persisted in turning away from them,Yima be ya'a be aya Yizhi acia pan ya ke aya Yizhi lugwa.
Surah 15:82,     Out of the mountains did they hew (their) edifices (feeling themselves) secure,Amaa fe zanazhie ka patizhi yan cie laa jin emizhi na nazhima e leyan'afi be aminci na.
Surah 15:83,  But the (mighty) Blast seized them of a morning,Kabara cia wan (be hallakae) lokaci asubaa yin.
Surah 15:84   ,  And of no avail to them was all that they did (with such art and care)!,Yan nazhi afe cewou na ma kunke ya'a be yandondo yin'a.
Surah 15:85 ,            We created not the heavens the earth and all between them but for just ends. And the Hour is surely coming (when this will be manifest). So overlook (any human faults) with gracious forgiveness.Yi majin alitta sanmazhi to kin to yannazhi fi tacin'abo na jin'a saide be gaskiyae. Hakika Alkiyami maa dabe ebo acin'o efa bedozhi fifa nayi wangi na.
Surah 15:86    For verily it is thy Lord who is the Master-Creator knowing all things.Hakika Tsoci wyoe uga yi Etsu naejin alitta nao Etsu kpikpe ma uyio.
Surah 15:87      And We have bestowed upon thee the Seven Oft-repeated (verses) and the Grand Qur´an.Hakika ma yi la aya gutwaba ya wyoe na ma afe gbau elo be zhin'y-na to Alkuranu na wancin na.
Surah 15:88              Strain not thine eyes. (Wistfully) at what We have bestowed on certain classes of them nor grieve over them: but lower thy wing (in gentleness) to the believers.Wyo mao ga ta eye wyozhi lo eba eyanma-wo zhi nayi laya zandocizhi miniabo na ma wyo mao ga nyin yangban etia bo ma wyo mao feo dakpyao ya Muminizhi.
Surah 15:89    And say: "I am indeed he that warneth openly and without ambiguity"-Wyo mao gan gan: "Hakika mi gangba jinci mi yio nama'a tula na".
Surah 15:90   (Of just such wrath) as We sent down on those who divided (Scripture into arbitrary parts)-Wyo mao feojin bauta'o ya Tsoci wyoe harda kamina hakika ga'tula ya wyo na (ugayi ajalio).
Surah 15:91   (So also on such) as have made Qur´an into shreds (as they please).Zanazhia Alkuranu laazhe kpere kpere na.
Surah 15:92  Therefore by the Lord We will of a surety call them to accountMizhi kuti be Tsocio yin hakika yia gbin'agan baenio.
Surah 15:93  For all their deeds.Eti etun nazhi afe lo nao.
Surah 15:94     Therefore expound openly what thou art commanded and turn away from those who join false gods with Allah.A kugikini be gaskiya tae yan foro na'ala ya wyoe nae wyo mao dzun gan zanazhie la yan pa Soko baci nao.
Surah 15:95  For sufficient are We unto thee against those who scoff-Hakika ma Yia kunke ya wyoe be egun yan zanazhie la'mi nae.
Surah 15:96       Those who adopt with Allah another god: but soon will they come to know.Zanazhi la Tsoci ndoci cie la pa Soko baci na bele yin a be de kpikpe.
Surah 15:97      We do indeed know how thy heart is distressed at what they say.Hakika yi ma de kpikpe kede yangban wyoe wun'e laa yiku be iri egan nazhie e gan nae.
Surah 15:97      We do indeed know how thy heart is distressed at what they say.Hakika yi ma de kpikpe kede yangban wyoe wun'e laa yiku be iri egan nazhie e gan nae.
Surah 15:98     But celebrate the praises of thy Lord and be of those who prostrate themselves in adoration.Ebo acin'o fe li Tsoci wyoe tsatsa yin be yebo jin'y-yau wyo mao lao feodan mini zanazhie jin yebo na.
Surah 15:99    And serve thy Lord until there come unto thee the Hour that is Certain.Wyo mao feojin bauta'o ya Tsoci wyoe harda kamina hakika ga'tula ya wyo na (ugayi ajalio).
