Surah 38:1,    Sad: By the Qur´an Full of Admonition: (This is the Truth).SWAD. ,(Soko gan): Mi zhikuti be Alkur'anuy nan yi eyan cinwanci nan.
Surah 38:2 ,    But the Unbelievers (are steeped) in self-glory and Separatism.,Akika za nanzhi a jin kafirinci nan aafe dan mini eti kagbo be emigboe.
Surah 38:3  ,       How many generations before them did We destroy In the end they cried (for mercy)- when there was no longer time for being saved!,Al'ummazhi nanzhiy dokun nan Yiajin hallaka shiadzo bedzo a ci wa egwa gan lokaci nan egwagan wa wun'a jin'a anfania nan.
Surah 38:4    ,     So they wonder that a Warner has come to them from among themselves! and the Unbelievers say "This is a sorcerer telling lies!,Acia jin mamaki nan gangba jinci fe be yaa dagan mini atso nan kafirizhi ci gan: Za nnan de eyan manci uyio u ma yi ganmanan zunci.
Surah 38:4    ,     So they wonder that a Warner has come to them from among themselves! and the Unbelievers say "This is a sorcerer telling lies!,Acia jin mamaki nan gangba jinci fe be yaa dagan mini atso nan kafirizhi ci gan: Za nnan de eyan manci uyio u ma yi ganmanan zunci.
Surah 38:5    ,   "Has he made the gods (all) into one Allah Truly this is a wonderful thing!",Ke-a ta ta uci ga Sokozhi laazhe Soko nini nao Akika nanan eyan mamaki uyio.
Surah 38:5  ,     "Has he made the gods (all) into one Allah Truly this is a wonderful thing!",Ke-a ta ta uci ga Sokozhi laazhe Soko nini nao Akika nanan eyan mamaki uyio.
Surah 38:6    ,       And the leader among them go away (impatiently) (saying) "Walk ye away and remain constant to your gods! For this is truly a thing designed (against you)!,Nunsa yan kinzhi cia nankin a ci fe gan gan: e fe lo yan'e ye mae la hakuri e jin ta eti bauta kutiezhio. Akika nanan shiri uyio nan a kpa nan. (a kpkpa gan a la yi yaagan be kuti yizhiy).
Surah 38:7    ,     "We never heard (the like) of this among the people of these latter days: this is nothing but a made-up tale!",Yi laawo iri nnan le'a dan mini adini nanzhiy shidzo nanboa nanan tsoma u iy yandondoa sai de ganmanan nan atswa nan.
Surah 38:8,              "What! has the Message been sent to him - (Of all persons) among us"...but they are in doubt concerning My (Own) Message! Nay they have not yet tasted My Punishment!,Ngba tacin yi nanzhiy zhi daanan ga bo a cin Alkur'anu be ya wun'o A'a ade jin kelo kezhin jin eti Alkur'anuo. Wuncin ma yi ebo nan ala fin azaba Mi yin'a nao
Surah 38:9  ,    Or have they the treasures of the mercy of thy Lord- the Exalted in Power the Grantor of Bounties without measure,Kashi eba a ga bo edzunbako yan arziki yan yegun Tsoci wye nan yi Etsu zankpe Etsu rytwa nan dan'o
Surah 38:10,         Or have they the dominion of the heavens and the earth and all between If so let them mount up with the ropes and means (to reach that end)!,Kashi a ga wun mulki yan sanmazhio to kin to yan nanzhi fi tacin'abo nao Wun'ayi acin'o a fea gun'akpe ekpzhio (yandondo nan agae wa nan u ciu lau ye'u de).
Surah 38:11   ,  But there - will be put to flight even a host of confederates.,Akika a de jamaa eti kperezhi nan zhiy shidzo nan kpata ma Soko a tan fi.
Surah 38:12  ,     Before them (were many who) rejected messengers- the people of Noah and ´Ad and Pharaoh the Lord of Stakes,Jamaa yan Nuhu zhi u'uyi ganmanan shidzo be dzo to Aduzhi to Firauna nan yi be kangarizhiy nan.
Surah 38:13  ,    And Thamud and the people of Lut and the Companions of the Wood; - such were the Confederates.,To samuduzhi to jamaa yan Lutu to jamaa yan Aikatazhi (a ga yi jamaa yan Annabi Shuaibuo) a gayi jama'a wuncinzhi nanzhiy Ye gan gan'a nao.
Surah 38:14  ,    Not one (of them) but rejected the messengers but My punishment came justly and inevitably (on them).,Ndondoa a Tucizhi yi ganmanan azaba cia jin tabbata ta eti'abo.
Surah 38:15     ,    These (today) only wait for a single mighty Blast which (when it comes) will brook no delay.,Zan nanazhiy ma ade yannan e tuye naa sai de kabara nini kete nan ndoci dan yegboro u boa nan.
Surah 38:16  ,     They say: "Our Lord! hasten to us our sentence (even) before the Day of Account!",Aci gan: Tsoci yi a rabo yan azaba yi laa ya yi vaa" yin tun kafi efo egagbae nan.
Surah 38:17   ,       Have patience at what they say and remember our servant David the man of strength: for he ever turned (to Allah).,A hakuri eti iri egan nanzhiye e gan nan Wyo mao pa wuzhi yi Dawuda nan gboka nan akika eza uyio na ezhe keba alamari u kpata wun"a ku ya Soko nan.
Surah 38:18,      It was We that made the hills declare in unison with him Our Praises at eventide and at break of day,Akika Yia patizhi jin foro yau aajin afe -- mi tasbihi jin ya Soko to yeshi to Lazhin.
Surah 38:19,    And the birds gathered (in assemblies): all with him did turn (to Allah).,To elugizhi nanzhi a kuyekan nan kpata ma afe e"la mi tu forouzhi.
Surah 38:20 ,    We strengthened his kingdom and gave him wisdom and sound judgment in speech and decision.,Yi ma"amulkiu gboka yi ma twaurya be hikimae ganni be kpikpe yan hukunci bae. (tsakani za nazhi gae sunwun nan).
Surah 38:21 ,     Has the Story of the Disputants reached thee Behold they climbed over the wall of the private chamber;,Ngba labari yan za nazhiy sunwun-na be eba wyo ya"ani Ka mi na a gun lo masallacinan.
Surah 38:22        ,              When they entered the presence of David and he was terrified of them they said: "Fear not: we are two disputants one of whom has wronged the other: Decide now between us with truth and treat us not with injustice but guide us to the even Path..,Kami na a gandan eba Dawuda"o na dansun"a cia wan"u aci gan: "Ga sundan ma yiza guba nanan yie sunwun-sun zaeni"a za ba ci jin gun ebo acin"o a hukunci ba tsakani yibo be gaskiyae Wyo tso mao ga jin zwalunci ma mao wu yi ba yan eko gboro.
Surah 38:23  ,            "This man is my brother: He has nine and ninety ewes and I have (but) one: Yet he says ´commit her to my care´ and is (moreover) harsh to me in speech.",Akika za nnan yegi mi yio u yi be nangizhi har shitsun din nini mima de nangi ninikete uci gan:"U"u la ya mi-nkpa u ma' mi kutso be egan wuncin'y.
Surah 38:24     ,                          (David) said: "He has undoubtedly wronged thee in demanding thy (single) ewe to be added to his (flock of) ewes: truly many are the partners (in business) who wrong each other: Not so do those who believe and work deeds of righteousness and how few are they"...and David gathered that We had tried him: he asked forgiveness of his Lord fell down bowing (in prostration) and turned (to Allah in repentance).,(Dawuda) ci gan: "Akika wun"a wun"a wyo jin gun na u gan wyo la nangi wyo yo be yan wun zhi na akika ekun dondo yan za nan zhie la dukiyazhi keba (eti wo ce'o nan) e jin dozhi zwalunci jin sai de za nanzhiy ga imani jin acie lo'tun guru na eza degi ma u ga iri za wuncinzhi yio. Kanga gancin Dawuda otso akpe ke yi'u ma cin le nan u ci wa gafara yan Tsoci'u u ci nikin cici u ci fe jin ruku u cia alamariuzhi kpata laaya Soko.
Surah 38:25 ,       So We forgave him this (lapse): he enjoyed indeed a Near Approach to Us and a beautiful place of (Final) Return.,Yi cia fa be'u yin be wun cin'y. Akika ma u de tsonba Yi u ma de ezhe keba wangi.
Surah 38:26       ,                      O David! We did indeed make thee a vicegerent on earth: so judge thou between men in truth (and justice): Nor follow thou the lusts (of thy heart) for they will mislead thee from the Path of Allah: for those who wander astray from the Path of Allah is a Penalty Grievous for that they forget the Day of Account.,Ya wyoe Dawuda akika Yia wyo la'afe halifa ta eti kin bo acin'o fe jin hukunci tsakani zazhio be gaskiyae ga kara la'mi tu etun yangban ma kacin'a uga wyo gbin ke eko Soko lugwa nan egagba yan azaba na gboka na ga ajin tabbata yaa ebo efo egagba nan a batan nan.
Surah 38:27   ,            Not without purpose did We create heaven and earth and all between! that were the thought of Unbelievers! but woe to the Unbelievers because of the Fire (of Hell)!,Yi ma jin sanma to kin to kin to yan nanzhi fi tacin'abo nan eti kpere'a wuncin ga yi yekpa yan kafirinzhio azaba yan enan wun'aji tabbata ya kafirizhi.
Surah 38:28         ,   Shall We treat those who believe and work deeds of righteousness the same as those who do mischief on earth Shall We treat those who guard against evil the same as those who turn aside from the right,Kashi Yi ga za nanzhi a imani jin acie lotun nan laazhe kpe eti kinbo nan Kashi yi ga za na zhie tswa Soko nan laazhe ye ni be eza banzazhiy
Surah 38:29 ,       (Here is) a Book which We have sent down unto thee full of blessings that they may mediate on its Signs and that men of understanding may receive admonition.,Litafi u yio na yi be albarkae nan Yi cin'u cin be ya wye ebo a fea kpaye eti a yauzhio u ma'u laufe sinsantun u ya zanazhi yi be hankaliy nan.
Surah 38:30,      To David We gave Solomon (for a son)- How excellent in Our service! Ever did he turn (to Us)!,Yi ma la ryatwa yan (egi) Sulaimanu ya Dawuda. Madalla be wuzhi nanae lo eba Sokonan.
Surah 38:31 ,    Behold there were brought before him at eventide coursers of the highest breeding and swift of foot;,Ka-mi na a ta dabbazhi zhi safuo ya'u aci gi gbaro be lozun'y nan.
Surah 38:32 ,         And he said "Truly do I love the love of good with a view to the glory of my Lord"- until (the sun) was hidden in the veil (of night):,U ci gan: Akika mi wa gan min lo etun alheri ndoci u cia tamba ce ta mi ke sallah (Laasar) lugwa har sai nan igidia swo dan yekan'ubo nan.
Surah 38:33 ,    "Bring them back to me." then began he to pass his hand over (their) legs and their necks.,(Uci gan) E kuazhin be tsun mi u ci fe kaa yan (be ebiy) biciazhio to koroazhio.
Surah 38:34 ,       And We did try Solomon: We placed on his throne a body (without life); but he did turn (to Us in true devotion):,Akika Yia Sulaimanu mancin le Yi cia nankan kpace ndoci (yan eza tsutsuci) ceta eti esa'ubo Uci kezhe da ba Soko be jin-jin ibadae.
Surah 38:35  ,            He said "O my Lord! Forgive me and grant me a kingdom which (it may be) suits not another after me: for Thou art the Grantor of Bounties (without measure).,U ci gan: "Tsoci fa be mi yin Wyo mao twami rya be mulki nan Zandondo'ade iri'u zunma mi boa nan. Akika Wyo ga yi Etsu ryatwao.
Surah 38:36  ,     Then We subjected the wind to his power to flow gently to his order Whithersoever he willed-,Yi cia efe jin foro ya'u u cie dazan be umurni'u yin karayin lo bandondo nan uga eye wu nan.
Surah 38:37  , As also the evil ones (including) every kind of builder and diver-,To shaitanzhi nanzhie tu eba iri ndondo nan zhi e gbin nuwan nan.
Surah 38:38  , As also others bound together in fetters.,To ndocizhi a pa fi mini kuruzhio.
Surah 38:39,      "Such are Our Bounties: whether thou bestow them (on others) or withhold them no account will be asked.",Nan na kpata eryatwa yi uyio nan de lisafia nan. Wun'a bao wyo tso la twarya ko ma wyo a yan'o sun gwa.
Surah 38:40  ,   And he enjoyed indeed a Near Approach to Us and a beautiful Place of (Final) Return.Akika ma u de tsonba yi ganni be ezhe keba wangiy.
Surah 38:41  ,        Commemorate Our Servant Job. Behold he cried to his Lord: "The Evil One has afflicted me with distress and suffering!",Wyo mao pa wuzhi yi Ayuba Kami na u fe yi Tsoci'u ye nan u ci gan: A kika shaitan yan'a egwa la two mi gan ni be etan'e.
Surah 38:42 ,    (The command was given:) "Strike with thy foot: here is (water) wherein to wash cool and refreshing and (water) to drink.",(Aci gan'u gan): A kin gba be bici o yin Nuwan yeko nan ga tin-ya bo nan u'u fu wyo mao fe o fin'u.
Surah 38:43   ,      And We gave him (back) his people and doubled their number- as a Grace from Ourselves and a thing for commemoration for all who have Understanding.,Yici twa'urya be iyaliuzhiy be ndocizhi ganni be'a yin. Yegun u yio dagan eba Yi bo u ma yi sinsan tu ya za nanzhiy ga de han-kali nan.
Surah 38:44 ,            "And take in thy hand a little grass and strike therewith: and break not (thy oath)." Truly We found him full of patience and constancy. How excellent in Our service! ever did he turn (to Us)!,A tsukun gwalagi (nan yi be gwalagi shitsun'y nan) la sungwa wyo cio lao din (iyali wye ebo wyo-bea Kuti nan wyozhi nan nyin ya ma). Akika Yi tsun (Ayuba) tsun eza hakuri. Madalla be wuzhi nan nae akika eza uyio nae dokun be ezheke lo eba Soko nan.
Surah 38:45,       And commemorate Our Servants Abraham Isaac and Jacob possessors of Power and Vision.,Wyo ma o pa wuzhi Yi Ibrahima to Ishaka to Yakubu. Za nanzhiy gboka nan a yio a ma yi eza hankalizhi.
Surah 38:46,    Verily We did choose them for a special (purpose)- proclaiming the Message of the Hereafter.,Akika Yia tadzu be edzuta yan pipa yan efo zobae.
Surah 38:47 ,   They were in Our sight truly of the company of the Elect and the Good.,Akika ma eba yi bo a dan mini eza tsitsaci zhio a ma yi eza alhairi zhi.
Surah 38:48 ,      And commemorate Isma´il Elisha and Zul-Kifl: Each of them was of the Company of the Good.,Wyo mao kezheo pa Ismaila to Alyasa'u to Zulkiflu kpataa dan mini eza alhairi zhio.
Surah 38:49,     This is a Message (of admonition): and verily for the righteous is a beautiful Place of (Final) Return-,Nan na yetun wangizhi a yio akika ma za nazhie tswa Soko nan a yi be zoba wangiy.
Surah 38:50 ,   Gardens of Eternity whose doors will (ever) be open to them;,U ga yi Aljannazhi nan a fi tutunyin nan ekozhi kpata ma yi kpikpeci ebo a bo.
Surah 38:51   ,   Therein will they recline (at ease): Therein can they call (at pleasure) for fruit in abundance and (delicious) drink;,A ga'kpetso fi nin yan'u bo a cia fe gan gan: a la yangici mari-marizhi a be'a ya a to yan nazhi a fin nan.
Surah 38:52  , And beside them will be chaste women restraining their glances (companions) of equal age.,A ma yi be ynzagi yezun nnizhiy nanzhie tswa ba cin le azhi ya ebaazhii kawanyin nan.
Surah 38:53  ,  Such is the Promise made to you for the Day of Account!,Nan nan u ga yi yanna zhi a jin alkawali nao ebo efo ega gbao.
Surah 38:54  ,    Truly such will be Our Bounty (to you); it will never fail;-,Akika nan nan arziki Yi uyio nan ma azoa nan.
Surah 38:55  ,  Yea such! but - for the wrong-doers will be an evil place of (Final) Return!-,Nan nan (Yan egi mi aljannazhi dan'o nan) Akika ma za nanzhie gbin iyaka Soko tu nan zoba dede ga ajin tabbata yaa.
Surah 38:56 ,  Hell!- they will burn therein - an evil bed (indeed to lie on)!-,Enan yan jahannama nan a gan dan'u nan akika yantaci za nan nanzhi a bi ye.
Surah 38:57  , Yea such! - then shall they taste it- a boiling fluid and a fluid dark murky intensely cold!-,Nan nan egagba uyio a fe'a fin nuwan yipa ganni be nuwan yan etin zhiy.
Surah 38:58,   And other Penalties of a similar kind to match them!,To ndoci nan beu nan yi dozhin'n a ma yi iri iri.
Surah 38:59  ,       Here is a troop rushing headlong with you! No welcome for them! truly they shall burn in the Fire!,(Acia gan'a gan): Nan nanzhi'otso jamaazhi a yio nanzhi'afin enao ganni be yeyin nan. (Kafiri kozhi cia gan gan): Yi fa yangban be bibea yin'a akika kpata enan bo a gan fio.
Surah 38:60 ,         (The followers shall cry to the misleaders:) "Nay ye (too)! No welcome for you! It is ye who have brought this upon us! Now evil is (this) place to stay in!",(Kafiri wawagizhi otso cia gan gan): A'a to yetso Yi fa yangban be ye yin'a ngan ye ga tswa ekpa yan zoba dede nan nan ya yi yio akika dannan nan nan wun'a bi ye.
Surah 38:61   ,       They will say: "Our Lord! whoever brought this upon us- Add to him a double Penalty in the Fire!",Acia gan gan: Tsoci yi Zandondo nan ga degwa dan egagba dede nan-nao nan be'u azaba sarauyin dan mini enao.
Surah 38:62,         And they will say: "What has happened to us that we see not men whom we used to number among the bad ones,Aci ke gan: kiy la yi ci laa le bagi ndocizhi ye'a yin'o Ebo nan kami na yidan izheo nan yi fe leaye le ke eza dedezhi nan.
Surah 38:63 ,    "Did we treat them (as such) in ridicule or have (our) eyes failed to perceive them",Kashi yi fe laami laa Kashi eye yizhi tsa pan yao yi ci lea yea yin'o
Surah 38:64,     Truly that is just and fitting- the mutual recriminations of the People of the Fire!,Akika ewun-sun nan nan tsakani egi'mi nanzhio gaskiya uyio.
Surah 38:65,          Say: "Truly am I a Warner: no god is there but the one Allah Supreme and Irresistible-,Gan gan: Mi de gangba jinci mi mi yio yandondo ma danbo na'ajin bauta ya be gaskiyae naa sai Soko nini ke te nan kagbo'u ta eti alittazhi kpatao nan.
Surah 38:66,      "The Lord of the heavens and the earth and all between- Exalted in Might able to enforce His Will forgiving again and again.",Etsu nan'e kpa sanmazhi nan to kin to yan nanzhi fi taacin'a bo nan. Etsu zankpe uyio Etsu ga'fara.
Surah 38:67,   Say: "That is a Message Supreme (above all)-,Gan gan: Wuncin labari uyio nan wancin nan.
Surah 38:68  ,"From which ye do turn away!,Ye ma zunma zhe tau yecia pan ke'u lugwa.
Surah 38:69  ,      "No knowledge have I of the Chiefs on high when they discuss (matters) among themselves.,Mide kpikpe ndondo eti malaika wancikozhi boa kami nan e gan gan elo bezhin (be Tsociy naa).
Surah 38:70,       ´Only this has been revealed to me: that I am to give warning plainly and publicly.",Umajin wahayi ndoci e jin be ya mi yin'a sai de mi de yi za naejin gangba na'atula nan.
Surah 38:71 ,       Behold thy Lord said to the angels: ",I am about to create man from clay:Kami nan Tsoci wye gan be malaikazhiy gan: "Akika Mie wa gan miajin alitta yan zawangi be egun'y.
Surah 38:72 ,       "When I have fashioned him (in due proportion) and breathed into him of My spirit fall ye down in obeisance unto him.",Kami nan Mi ga'u jin gunmi nan Micia efe yan ruhi Mi be fiu nan kpatae yaa ya zhi kinbo ye jin sujadae yau.
Surah 38:73,   So the angels prostrated themselves all of them together:,Malaikazhi kpata cida' sujada ya'u.
Surah 38:74,     Not so Iblis: he was haughty and became one of those who reject Faith.,Sai de Iblisu nan'a gbotika nan ucia fe dan mini kafiri zhio.
Surah 38:75 ,            (Allah) said: "O Iblis! What prevents thee from prostrating thyself to one whom I have created with my hands Art thou haughty Or art thou one of the high (and mighty) ones",(Soko) cigan: Kiy kan wye sujada jin ya alitta nan Mi jin be egwa Mi yin nao Wyo gbotika gbo kashi wyo'a fe dan mini za nanzhie wo tia san nao
Surah 38:76,         (Iblis) said: "I am better than he: thou createdst me from fire and him thou createdst from clay.",Uci gan: Ngan mi gan'u ebo nan ena wyo'ajin mi yin'o egun ma wyo'a jin wun yin'o.
Surah 38:77,    (Allah) said: "Then get thee out from here: for thou art rejected accursed.,(Soko) cigan: a'dzun tinya dagan mini Aljannao akika wyo'a fe eza cice yaci.
Surah 38:78 ,    "And My curse shall be on thee till the Day of Judgment.",La'ana Mi ma ta eti'obo har da fo nan aga alkiyami nan-na.
Surah 38:79 ,    (Iblis) said: "O my Lord! Give me then respite till the Day the (dead) are raised."Uci gan: Tsoci pata ya mi har da fo nan agaa na'akin nan.
Surah 38:80 ,  (Allah) said: "Respite then is granted thee-,(Soko) ci gan: Akika wyo dan mini za nan mia pata ya nan.
Surah 38:81 ,  "Till the Day of the Time Appointed.",Har da efo yan lokaci nan yi be iyakae nan.
Surah 38:81  , "Till the Day of the Time Appointed.",Har da efo yan lokaci nan yi be iyakae nan.
Surah 38:82,   (Iblis) said: "Then by Thy power I will put them all in the wrong-,Uci gan: Mi zhi kuti be zankpe'o yin akika mi ga'a gbin bae nio.
Surah 38:83 ,  "Except Thy Servants amongst them sincere and purified (by Thy Grace).",Sai de wuzhi wyozhi nanzhiy wyo ga yangban'azhi tadzu nan.
Surah 38:84 ,  (Allah) said: "Then it is just and fitting- and I say what is just and fitting-,(Soko gan: Akika yan gaskiya be gaskiya tsabae u ga Mie gan ya ye yeo.
Surah 38:85 ,     "That I will certainly fill Hell with thee and those that follow thee- every one.",WALLAHI Mi ga jahannama she pin yin be wyo yin to za nanzhi ga emi tu'o nan-baenio).
Surah 38:86  ,       Say: "No reward do I ask of you for this (Qur´an) nor am I a pretender.mGan ya'gan: Mi wa lada ndondo be ye yin'a eti etun nan mie lo nan boa mi ma la kpaka ndondo ta ye ye'a.
Surah 38:87 ,   "This is no less than a Message to (all) the Worlds.,Wun de fea sai sinsantu ya alitazhi kpaata.,
Surah 38:87 ,   "This is no less than a Message to (all) the Worlds.,Wun de fea sai sinsantu ya alitazhi kpaata.
Surah 38:88  , "And ye shall certainly know the truth of it (all) after a while.",WALLAHI Ma yea be kpe gaskiya laabari nae yae na zunma lokaci ndocio. 
