Surah 26:1 ,Ta. Sin. Mim.,TWA'U SIN MIM
Surah 26:2 ,  These are verses of the Book that makes (things) clear.,Wuncin ayazhi ayio ya Litafi (ALKURANU) nazhi yi gbangba na.
Surah 26:3,     It may be thou frettest thy soul with grief that they do not become Believers.,Wyo cie jin ke wyoga rayi wyo jin hallaka na ebo na ajin imania na.
Surah 26:4    ,      If (such) were Our Will We could send down to them from the sky a Sign to which they would bend their necks in humility.,Uga bayi Yia cin aya ndoci be ya'a dagan sanmao kpaata'ama ciga kpatsu ta ya zankpe Soko.
Surah 26:5  ,        But there comes not to them a newly-revealed Message from (Allah) Most Gracious but they turn away therefrom.,Ama la'a de gangba woro na be ya'a dagan eba (Soko) ALRAHMANUO na lea saide aga'a pan keu lugwa.
Surah 26:6       They have indeed rejected (the Message): so they will know soon (enough) the truth of what they m,ocked at!,Hakika a alamari Soko yi ganmana to bele yin labari zoba emi nazhie la na'aa dabe ya'a.Surah 26:7  ,        Do they not look at the earth- how many noble things of all kinds We have produced therein,Kashi acin kin cin lea dokun-dokun yie nyin yangici sun-sunzhi tinya dagan iri wangi-wangi zhio.
Surah 26:8     ,  Verily in this is a Sign: but most of them do not believe.,Akika mini wuncin'o egwawu yan zankpe Soko danbo amaade ekundondoazhi ajin imania.
Surah 26:9,    And verily thy Lord is He the Exalted in Might Most Merciful.,Akika ma Tsoci wyoe Wyun gayi Etsu zankpeo wyunnga mayi Etsu yegun'o.
Surah 26:1,0       Behold thy Lord called Moses: "Go to the people of iniquity-,(Wyo mao pa) kamina Tsoci wyo yi Musa na. Uci gan'u gan: "Fe lo eba jama'a yan azwalumi wuncinzhi.
Surah 26:11 ,  "The people of the Pharaoh: will they not fear Allah",(Waato) jama'a yan Fir'auna zhi(Gan'agan): A a sundan Sokoa.
Surah 26:12  ,   He said: "O my Lord! I do fear that they will charge me with falsehood:,Ugan: Tsoci mi! Akika mie wo dansun na aga egan mi-yi ganmana na.
Surah 26:13 ,      "My breast will be straightened. And my speech may not go (smoothly): so send unto Aaron.,Yangban mi mae laa yiku to gintara mi maa lukpin. Ebo acin'o tun'afi Haruna (ebo'upa mi baci).
Surah 26:14 ,    "And (further) they have a charge of crime against me; and I fear they may slay me.",Amade lefi ndoci nami jin acie laa wa mi za na ebo acin'o mie sundan abea mi wu ma.
Surah 26:15  ,    Allah said: "By no means! proceed then both of you with Our Signs; We are with you and will listen (to your call).,(Soko) gan: "Ko degi (yandondoa tswan wyoa) ebo acin'o efe lo zagubaabae be aya Yizhi hakika Yi dan ganni be yeyin yie wo yandondo.
Surah 26:16  ,    "So go forth both of you to Pharaoh and say: ´We have been sent by the Lord and Cherisher of the worlds;,Efe lo eba Fir'una yemae gan'ugan: "Yi tuci yi yio yan Tsoci nae kpa alitazhi kpaata na.
Surah 26:17,    "´Send thou with us the Children of Israel.´",Kede; wyo yo la Bani Israilazhio yao ya yi na.
Surah 26:18 ,        (Pharaoh) said: "Did we not cherish thee as a child among us and didst thou not stay in our midst many years of thy life,(Fir'auna) gan: Asa ujin yi ga kpa wyoe tacin yibo tun na wyo yidan bobongio naa har wyoci fedun dan tacin yibo eya na dokun naa
Surah 26:19,      "And thou didst a deed of thine which (thou knowest) thou didst and thou art an ungrateful (wretch)!",Wyoci lo tun wuncin na wyo lo na wyo cia fe dan mini mana'a wocizhi boaSurah 26:20     Moses said: "I did it then when I was in error.Ugan: "E ba mi jin'u jin kangama miajin jahilinci yanna ewunzhe yi na.
Surah 26:21  ,        "So I fled from you (all) when I feared you; but my Lord has (since) invested me with judgment (and wisdom) and appointed me as one of the messengers.,Gancin micia bici tinya eba yebo ebo dansun yebo. Tsoci mi ci twarya hukunci (kpikpe) ya mi u cia mi laafe dan mini tucizhio.
Surah 26:21 ,         "So I fled from you (all) when I feared you; but my Lord has (since) invested me with judgment (and wisdom) and appointed me as one of the messengers.,Gancin micia bici tinya eba yebo ebo dansun yebo. Tsoci mi ci twarya hukunci (kpikpe) ya mi u cia mi laafe dan mini tucizhio.
Surah 26:22 ,      "And this is the favour with which thou dost reproach me- that thou hast enslaved the Children of Israel!",Ni'ima wuncin ma na wyoe la'asamizhina uyi ebo na wyoa banu Israilazhi kufi bautao na.
Surah 26:23,    Pharaoh said: "And what is the ´Lord and Cherisher of the worlds´",Fir'auna gan: Zi'I mae ye RABIL-ALAMINAO (Etsu nae kpa alitazhi nao)
Surah 26:24,        (Moses) said: "The Lord and Cherisher of the heavens and the earth and all between- if ye want to be quite sure.",Ugan:"Etsu nae kpa sanmazhi to kin to yannazhi fi tacin'abo na wun'ayi hakika eza gaskiya yeyio na.
Surah 26:25 ,   (Pharaoh) said to those around: "Did ye not listen (to what he says)",Fir'auna cie gan be zanazhi mau -- ba na gan:"Ngba ye wo yanna wyun'e gan naaSurah 26:26    (Moses) said: "Your Lord and the Lord of your fathers from the beginning!"Musa gan:"Tsoci ye to Tsoci yanmanciye yan mafaarizhi.
Surah 26:27  ,    (Pharaoh) said: "Truly your messenger who has been sent to you is a veritable madman!",Fir'auna gan:Akika Tuci ye nana na'a tun fi ye na ilanduci uyio.
Surah 26:28,        (Moses) said: "Lord of the East and the West and all between! if ye only had sense!",M u s a c I g a n : "Tsoci na wun igidi laba to igidi lo ba na to yannazhi fi tacin'abo na wun'ayi hakika eza hankalizhi ye yio na.
Surah 26:29,       (Pharaoh) said: "If thou dost put forward any god other than me I will certainly put thee in prison!"( F I r ' a u n a ) g a n : " ,Wyo ma ga kara ci jin bauta ya Tsoci ndoci zunma mibo to akika migao wan daa kan dan.
Surah 26:30,    (Moses) said: "Even if I showed you something clear (and) convincing",(Musa) gan:"Asa mibo ya wyoe be hujja yan gbangba yin'a
Surah 26:31 ,     (Pharaoh) said: "Show it then if thou tellest the truth!",(Fir'auna) gan:"To laube ya yi wun'a yi mini zaba gaskiya zhi bo wyo dan'o na.
Surah 26:31  ,    (Pharaoh) said: "Show it then if thou tellest the truth!",(Fir'auna) gan:"To laube ya yi wun'a yi mini zaba gaskiya zhi bo wyo dan'o na.
Surah 26:32,     So (Moses) threw his rod and behold it was a serpent plain (for all to see)!,Gancin Musa cia tsunkun'u ce cici edagao ufe zhe ewako ci fi'ilio.
Surah 26:33  ,   And he drew out his hand and behold it was white to all beholders!,Uci kezhea egwa'u wa tinya ucia zhe bokun nae ban na fi zanazhie cin'u le na.
Surah 26:34 ,     (Pharaoh) said to the Chiefs around him: "This is indeed a sorcerer well-versed:,(Fir'auna) ci gan be (majalisauzhi) nazhie mau kezhe na gan: "Akika za nana eyan-manci uyio na de kpikpe na.
Surah 26:35,       "His plan is to get you out of your land by his sorcery; then what is it ye counsel",Wyun'e kpakpa gan wyun'u la yeyeu yan'u tin'u ya dagan kin yan be eyan man'u yin ngba ki yedea gan'o.
Surah 26:35 ,      "His plan is to get you out of your land by his sorcery; then what is it ye counsel",Wyun'e kpakpa gan wyun'u la yeyeu yan'u tin'u ya dagan kin yan be eyan man'u yin ngba ki yedea gan'o.
Surah 26:36  ,    They said: "Keep him and his brother in suspense (for a while) and dispatch to the Cities heralds to collect-Agan: ",U u la pata be dzo to yegiu wyo cio tun tucizhio lo zhi nin ebo ezazhia laa gun'a yekan.
Surah 26:37,   "And bring up to thee all (our) sorcerers well-versed.",A maa bea ya wyoe be egba yan eyan mancizhi nazhi kpe eyan ma ye na.
Surah 26:38  ,  So the sorcerers were got together for the appointment of a day well-known,Acia eyanma cizhi kuye kan zhizhi dan lokaci yan efo na yi tsitsaci nae.
Surah 26:39,    And the people were told: "Are ye (now) assembled-,Aci fe gan ya zawangi zhi to zandondo'u tin'uya'ulo gungun yekanba.
Surah 26:40 ,     "That we may follow the sorcerers (in religion) if they win",Ebo ma yi'I la mi'itu eyan macizhi wun'ayi aga de zankpeo na.
Surah 26:41  ,         So when the sorcerers arrived they said to Pharaoh: "Of course - shall we have a (suitable) reward if we win,Kamina eyanmacizhi bea gun yekan na agan:Ngba yi'ade la'ada ndoci wun'ayi yi ga de zankpeo na
Surah 26:42  ,   He said: "Yea (and more)- for ye shall in that case be (raised to posts) nearest (to my person)."( f I r' a u n a ) c I g a n : ",E ba hakikama ye gaa fe dan mini eza tsonbazhio.
Surah 26:43   ,   Moses said to them: "Throw ye - that which ye are about to throw!",Musa cia gan'a gan: Yandondo na ye ga dea ce na efe ceu.
Surah 26:44 ,       So they threw their ropes and their rods and said: "By the might of Pharaoh it is we who will certainly win!",Aci fe ce egban'azhi to tsukun'azhi a ci gan : "Be zankpe yan Fir'aunae hakika yi gaade zankpe.
Surah 26:45 ,      Then Moses threw his rod when behold it straightway swallows up all the falsehoods which they fake!,Gancin Musa cia tsukun'u ce cici edagao ma ufe tun kaaya ganmangizhi nyin.
Surah 26:46,  Then did the sorcerers fall down prostrate in adoration,Kpaata eyan-macizhi ci daa kin aci fe jin sujada.
Surah 26:46 , Then did the sorcerers fall down prostrate in adoration,Kpaata eyan-macizhi ci daa kin aci fe jin sujada.
Surah 26:47,   Saying: "We believe in the Lord of the Worlds,Agan:"Yia imani jin be Tsoci nae kpa alitazhi kpaata nae.
Surah 26:48  ,"The Lord of Moses and Aaron.",Tsoci yan Musa be Harunae.
Surah 26:49    ,                Said (Pharaoh): "Believe ye in Him before I give you permission surely he is your leader who has taught you sorcery! but soon shall ye know! Be sure I will cut off your hands and your feet on opposite sides and I will cause you all to die on the cross!",Ugan:"Yia imani jin beu yin shidzo tun mi laa ya ye izinia Akika wyun ga yi nunsa ye na wu ye eyanma nao ye ma gaa kpe yinna. Akika miga egwa yezhi to bici yezhi ko ya leba dozhi mi ma gae fosa baenio.
Surah 26:50   ,   They said: "No matter! for us we shall but return to our Lord!,Agan:"Daamuwa danboa hakika yi eba Tsociyi (Soko) ga yia zheban lo.
Surah 26:51   ,       "Only our desire is that our Lord will forgive us our faults that we may become foremost among the believers!",Akika yi mae bavun gan Tsoci yi Wyun'a jin gaafara bicicin yizhi to-to na yi yia zhe mafaari zanazhia imani jin na.
Surah 26:52  ,     By inspiration we told Moses: "Travel by night with my servants; for surely ye shall be pursued.",Yima jin wahayi ya Musa gan: A tinya yeshi be wuzhi Mizhiakika ezazhia lamitu ye zunmao.
Surah 26:53,    Then Pharaoh sent heralds to (all) the Cities,Fir'auna cia ezazhi tundaa zhinin ebo ekunguncizhia la'a gun'a yekan.
Surah 26:54 ,  (Saying): "These (Israelites) are but a small band,Fir'auna gan:"Hakika zananazhi jamaazhi ayio na dokun'a na.
Surah 26:55 , "And they are raging furiously against us;,Ezazhi ma ayio nazhie zhe yi wun na.
Surah 26:56  "But we are a multitude amply fore-warned."Hakikama yi afe zanazhie lele be shirii na baenio.
Surah 26:57 ,  So We expelled them from gardens springs,Gancin Yicia yan dzun tinya dagan batakoazhio be nuwan managiazhi.
Surah 26:58,  Treasures and every kind of honourable position;,Ganni be edzunbako arzikizhi be edunfeba yan alfarmazhi i.
Surah 26:59 ,  Thus it was but We made the Children of Israel inheritors of such things.,Acinga gau yioYicia laa gigun ya Banu Israilazhi.
Surah 26:59,   Thus it was but We made the Children of Israel inheritors of such things.,Acinga gau yioYicia laa gigun ya Banu Israilazhi.
Surah 26:60 ,So they pursued them at sunrise.,Acia mi tua (aci daa tso) lokaci igidie la tin ya nae.
Surah 26:61 ,      And when the two bodies saw each other the people of Moses said: "We are sure to be overtaken.",Kamina jamaa gubaba bea dozhi leye na jamaa yan Musa cigan: "Hakika zannzhi gayi tso re!"
Surah 26:62,     (Moses) said: "By no means! my Lord is with me! Soon will He guide me!",Musa gan:"A'a ujin acin'a akika Tsoci mi dan be mi yin Umaa wu yi ba eko gwagan.
Surah 26:63 ,           Then We told Moses by inspiration: "Strike the sea with thy rod." So it divided and each separate part became like the huge firm mass of a mountain.,Gancin Yici jin wahyi fi Musa gan:"A' tsukun wyoe laadan edu edagao ma edufe lafi kansan ndondo cia zhe ke pati wanciko-ko na.
Surah 26:63  ,          Then We told Moses by inspiration: "Strike the sea with thy rod." So it divided and each separate part became like the huge firm mass of a mountain.,Gancin Yici jin wahyi fi Musa gan:"A' tsukun wyoe laadan edu edagao ma edufe lafi kansan ndondo cia zhe ke pati wanciko-ko na.
Surah 26:64 , And We made the other party approach thither.,Yicia jamaa ndocizhi (yan Fir'auna) laa tsoba edu kpan yin.
Surah 26:65,    We delivered Moses and all who were with him;,Yicia Musa wadzun to zanazhi dan beu yin na naenio.
Surah 26:66 , But We drowned the others.,Yicia jamaa yan Fir'auna wuncinzhi gbin fi eduo baenio.
Surah 26:67,       Verily in this is a Sign: but most of them do not believe.,Hakika mini wuncin'o egwa wu yan zankpe Soko danbo amaade ekundondoazhi ajin muminizhia.
Surah 26:68  ,  And verily thy Lord is He the Exalted in Might Most Merciful.,Hakika ma Tsoci wyun gayi Etsu zankpeo etsu yegun.Surah 26:69   And rehearse to them (something of) Abraham´s story.Wyo mao ta laabari Ibrahimuo yaa.
Surah 26:70,     Behold he said to his father and his people: "What worship ye",Yan kamina ugan ya Babau to jamaa yan'uzhi gan:Ki ye ye jin bauta ya dan nao
Surah 26:71 ,    They said: "We worship idols and we remain constantly in attendance on them.",Agan: "Yie bauta jin ya kutizhi Yimaa pan yeshia yigaa ku gikini be bauta jin'a yin.
Surah 26:72 ,   He said: "Do they listen to you when ye call (on them)",(Ibrahima) gan:"Beke ma e wogan ye kamina ye gae yia ye na
Surah 26:73 ,  "Or do you good or harm",Kashi e la eyan anfani ndocizhi la yaye kashi a la egun tswan yewo
Surah 26:73 ,  "Or do you good or harm",Kashi e la eyan anfani ndocizhi la yaye kashi a la egun tswan yewo
Surah 26:74 ,,    They said: "Nay but we found our fathers doing thus (what we do)."Agan:"A' a acinga tsa yitsun yanmanci yizhi fe jin'o.
Surah 26:75,    He said: "Do ye then see whom ye have been worshipping-,(Ibrahima) gan:"Ye le yan na ye jin bauta ya daa na ye.
Surah 26:76  ,"Ye and your fathers before you-,To ye to yanmancizhi nazhia shidzoa ni na.
Surah 26:77   ,  "For they are enemies to me; not so the Lord and Cherisher of the Worlds;,To hakika kpaata makirimizhi ayio saide (Soko) Etsu naekpa alitazhi kpaata na.
Surah 26:78 ,  "Who created me and it is He Who guides me;,Etsu najin alita mi na Wyun gaa wumi bao.
Surah 26:79 ,  "Who gives me food and drink,Etsu na Wyun gae ya mi gio na Wyun ga mae ya mi fin'o na.
Surah 26:80,   "And when I am ill it is He Who cures me;,Mi ma ga bea jin ci'igun Wyun gaa sa mi gun'o.Surah 26:81  , "Who will cause me to die and then to life (again);,Wyunga mayi Etsu naa wumi nao gancin Ucia beami ye rayi dan.
Surah 26:82  ,     "And who I hope will forgive me my faults on the day of Judgment.,Wyunga ma yi Etsu na mie bavun gan' wyun'u jin mi gaafara zunubi mizhi Efo Alkiyami nao.
Surah 26:83 ,    "O my Lord! bestow wisdom on me and join me with the righteous;,Tsoci mi! Twami rya be hukunci kpikpe wyo mao lamio keba be za guruzhi.
Surah 26:84,     "Grant me honourable mention on the tongue of truth among the latest (generations);,Wyo mao yami arziki yetun (yeji) wangiodan gintara za zunma zhio.
Surah 26:85 ,   "Make me one of the inheritors of the Garden of Bliss;,Wyo mao lamio feodan mini egun gici Al'janna zhio nayi emi ni'ima na.
Surah 26:86,     "Forgive my father for that he is among those astray;,Wyo mao fa be Baba mi yin hakika wyun'a fe dan mini zanazhia gbin nao.
Surah 26:87  , "And let me not be in disgrace on the Day when (men) will be raised up;-,Wyo mao ga sunmi zunye ma. Efo na wyo ga'a san alitazhi na.
Surah 26:88 ,    "The Day whereon neither wealth nor sons will avail,Efo na dukiya to egizhi aade anfania na.
Surah 26:89,   "But only he (will prosper) that brings to Allah a sound heart;,Sai de zana gabe eba Soko be yangban lilici-na.
Surah 26:90 , "To the righteous the Garden will be brought near,Acia Aljanna laa tsoba zanazhie sundan Soko na kpanyin.
Surah 26:91  ,"And to those straying in Evil the Fire will be placed in full view;,Aciga ena jahannama la'a wu eza egbinzhi.
Surah 26:92  ,   "And it shall be said to them: ´Where are the (gods) ye worshipped-,Acia gan'agan:"Babo yannazhi ye jin bauta ya na dan'o
Surah 26:93   ,   "´Besides Allah Can they help you or help themselves´,Nazhi ma jin Sokoa na beke ajin ye taimako wo na Kashi atso jinti tacin'a taimako wo
Surah 26:94,   "Then they will be thrown headlong into the (Fire)- they and those straying in Evil,Aci gaa (fuskazhi) zhekpe fi miniubo to aa to eza egbinzhi.
Surah 26:95,  "And the whole hosts of Iblis together.,To kagbocizhi yan Iblisuzhi baenio.
Surah 26:96  , "They will say there in their mutual bickerings:,Acigan alaali ma aafe zanazhie jin husuma be dozhi'i na.
Surah 26:96,   "They will say there in their mutual bickerings:,Acigan alaali ma aafe zanazhie jin husuma be dozhi'i na.
Surah 26:97,     "´By Allah we were truly in an error manifest,Akika be Sokoe Yi yia fe (izheo) dan mini eza gbin gbincizhio.
Surah 26:98 ,  "´When we held you as equals with the Lord of the Worlds;,Ebo na yi fe la ye santatu be Tsoci nae kpa alitazhi kpatana.
Surah 26:99,   "´And our seducers were only those who were steeped in guilt.,Amade zanazhi gbin yi naa sai de lefi jincizhi.
Surah 26:100,   "´Now then we have none to intercede (for us),To nyin na yide zando nazhia tangwa ya yi naa.
Surah 26:101 , "´Nor a single friend to feel (for us).Yi ma de eyandoci nayi masoyi naa.
Surah 26:102 ,     "´Now if we only had a chance of return we shall truly be of those who believe!´"To daacigan yia de kaafa debe daa yigaafe dan mini muminizhio.
Surah 26:103  ,     Verily in this is a Sign but most of them do not believe.,Akika mini wuncin'o egwa wu yan zankpe Soko danbo.
Surah 26:10,4    And verily thy Lord is He the Exalted in Might Most Merciful.,Hakika Tsoci wyo ma Ugayi Etsu zankpeo Etsu yegun'o.
Surah 26:105  , The people of Noah rejected the messengers.Jamaa yan Nuhu zhi aa egan Tucizhi yi ganmana.
Surah 26:106 ,     Behold their brother Noah said to them: "Will ye not fear (Allah),Kamina yegia Nuhu ganyaa gan:"Ye gaafe zanazhie sundan Soko naa
Surah 26:107  , "I am to you a messenger worthy of all trust:,Hakika Tuci mi yio eza amaana yaye.
Surah 26:108,  "So fear Allah and obey me.,Ebo acin'o e sundan Soko ye mae la mie tu mi.
Surah 26:109  ,        "No reward do I ask of you for it: my reward is only from the Lord of the Worlds:,Mima gbin ye gan laada ndondo etiuboa laada mi dan be Etsu naekpa alitazhi kpaata na.
Surah 26:110,  "So fear Allah and obey me.",To e sundan Soko ye mae la mie tu mi.
Surah 26:111 ,   They said: "Shall we believe in thee when it is the meanest that follow thee",Acigan:"Gbani yi la imani'i jin be wyo yin alaalima eza gbagbangizhi ga la mi tu wyo yoo.
Surah 26:112    , He said: "And what do I know as to what they do,Ugan:"Mima de kpikpe etun nazhi afe lo yan'a naa.
Surah 26:113   ,   "Their account is only with my Lord if ye could (but) understand.,Egagba etun'azhi ma udan'a saide be Tsoci mi yin yega kpekpe na.
Surah 26:114,   "I am not one to drive away those who believe.,Mi ma jin zanaa nyan muminizhi ya naa.
Surah 26:115,    "I am sent only to warn plainly in public.",Mi de fea sai de gangbajinci na ma tula na.
Surah 26:116  ,     They said: "If thou desist not O Noah! thou shalt be stoned (to death).",Agan:"Nuhu kagan wyo kegan'a wyo gaafe dan mini zanazhi yia ce yan na.
Surah 26:117,    He said: "O my Lord! truly my people have rejected me.,Ugan: Tsoci mi! Hakika jamaa yan mi zhi aa egan mi yi ganmana.
Surah 26:117 ,   He said: "O my Lord! truly my people have rejected me.,Ugan: Tsoci mi! Hakika jamaa yan mi zhi aa egan mi yi ganmana.
Surah 26:118    ,    "Judge Thou then between me and them openly and deliver me and those of the Believers who are with me.",Wyo mao jin hukunci tsakani mi bo bea yin hukunci yan gaskiya wyo mao ganyi gwa to mumini nazhi dan ganni be mi yin na.
Surah 26:119  ,   So We delivered him and those with him in the Ark filled (with all creatures).,Gancin Yiciu gangwa to zanazhi dan beu yin mini eya naa she be karazhi na.
Surah 26:120 ,  Thereafter We drowned those who remained behind.,Gancin zunma wuncin'o Yicia zanazhi ke na gbin fi nuwan'o.
Surah 26:121   ,    Verily in this is a Sign: but most of them do not believe.,Akika mini wuncin'o aya danbo amaade ekundondo azhi ajin muminizhia.
Surah 26:122  ,  And verily thy Lord is He the Exalted in Might Most Merciful.,Akika ma Tsoci wyoe Ugayi Etsu zankpeo E,tsu yegun'o.
Surah 26:123  ,The ´Ad (people) rejected the messengers.,Jama'a yan A'duzhio tso ma aa egan Tuciazhi yi ganmana.
Surah 26:124 ,     Behold their brother Hud said to them: ",Will ye not fear (Allah)Kamina yegia Hudu gan yaa gan:"Ye gaafe zanazhie sundan Soko naa
Surah 26:125 ,  "I am to you a messenger worthy of all trust:,Akika Tuci mi yio yaye na ma yi eza amaana na.
Surah 26:126,  "So fear Allah and obey me.,Ebo acin'o esundan Soko yemae lamie tu mi.
Surah 26:127,          "No reward do I ask of you for it: my reward is only from the Lord of the Worlds.,Mi ma gbin yegan laada ndondo etiuboa. Akika laada mi dan'a sai be Etsu nae kpa alitazhi kpata na.
Surah 26:128 ,   "Do ye build a landmark on every high place to amuse yourselves,Gbaani yedeajin ye fe tuba kozhi kpe pati zhio ye cia jin ye fe dzodzo
Surah 26:129,   "And do ye get for yourselves fine buildings in the hope of living therein (for ever),Ye ciajin yea nuwanzhi kanzhizhi (yan etunzhi) ke wyoa gan gan yea tsu tsua na.
Surah 26:130  , "And when ye exert your strong hand do ye do it like men of absolute power,Ye ma ga gwa lasun yandondo yeajin yea egwasun'u kpantsuku'I yecia fe gbotika (dan kinbo).
Surah 26:131 , "Now fear Allah and obey me.,Ye de sundan Sokoye mae la mie tu mi.
Surah 26:132 ,   "Yea fear Him Who has bestowed on you freely all that ye know.,Yemae sundan (Soko) Etsu na la ni'imazhi yaye na yetso ma kpe na.
Surah 26:133  ,"Freely has He bestowed on you cattle and sons-,U yaye ni'ima yan dabbazhi to egizhi.
Surah 26:134, "And Gardens and Springs.,To batazhi to eye nuwanzhi.
Surah 26:135  ,   "Truly I fear for you the Penalty of a Great Day.",Akika mie sundan yaye yan azaba efo na wancin na.
Surah 26:136  ,      They said: "It is the same to us whether thou admonish us or be not among (our) admonishers!,Agan yeni uyi yayi yio ko wyo'ojin wa'azi koma wyoga jin waazi ma.
Surah 26:137 ,   "This is no other than a customary device of the ancients,Nana de ufea sai de bojin iri yan za paayin zhi.
Surah 26:138  ,"And we are not the ones to receive Pains and Penalties!",Yima aajin yi azaabaa.
Surah 26:139    ,     So they rejected him and We destroyed them. Verily in this is a Sign: but most of them do not believe.,Acia egan'u yi ganmana gancin Yicia jin hallaka. Hakika mini wuncin'o egwa wu yan zankpe Soko danbo. Amaade ekun dondoazhi ajin muminizhia.
Surah 26:140  ,  And verily thy Lord is He the Exalted in Might Most Merciful.,Hakika Tsoci wyo ma ugayi Etsu zankpeo Etsu yegun.
Surah 26:140,    And verily thy Lord is He the Exalted in Might Most Merciful.,Hakika Tsoci wyo ma ugayi Etsu zankpeo Etsu yegun.
Surah 26:141  ,The Thamud (people) rejected the messengers.,Jamaa yan Samuduzhi aa egan Tucizhi kpaata yi ganmana.
Surah 26:142     , Behold their brother Salih said to them: "Will you not fear (Allah),Kamina yegia Salihu gan yaa gan:"Ye gaafe za nazhie sundan Soko naa
Surah 26:143  , "I am to you a messenger worthy of all trust.,Akika Tuci mi yio yaye na ma yi eza amaana na.
Surah 26:144 , "So fear Allah and obey me.,Ebo acin'o esundan Soko ye mae la mie tu mi.
Surah 26:145      ,    "No reward do I ask of you for it: my reward is only from the Lord of the Worlds.,Mi ma gbin yegan laada ndondo etiuboa akika laada mi dan'a sai be Tsoci nae kpa alitazhi kpaata na.
Surah 26:146 ,   "Will ye be left secure in (the enjoyment of) all that ye have here-,Kashi ye kpaye kpa gan aga ye ya yan'e gun taacin (eyan izhe) nanazhio be yangban tacin'y
Surah 26:147  ,"Gardens and Springs,Fi mini batako yezhio to eye nuwan (managi) zhii
Surah 26:148,   "And corn-fields and date-palms with spathes near breaking (with the weight of fruit),Be eyandzozhi to dobinazhi nazhi sun-sun'uzhi yi didaci zhi na
Surah 26:149  ,  "And ye carve houses out of (rocky) mountains with great skill.,Yecia jin ye fe ka emizhi dagan patizhio ye ciajin ye fe jin alfahri.
Surah 26:150,  "But fear Allah and obey me;,To esundan Soko ye mae lamie tu mi.
Surah 26:151 ,  "And follow not the bidding of those who are extravagant-,Ye mae ga fe lamitu umurni (foro) zana zhie jin barna na ma (zanazhie nyin yan na).
Surah 26:152 ,    "Who make mischief in the land and mend not (their ways).",Zanazhie nyin yan nyin kpe kinbo na amae gye yan'a na.
Surah 26:153 ,   They said: "Thou art only one of those bewitched!,Agan:"Wyo dea fe dan mini zanazhi aajin shiri nao kawayin.
Surah 26:154,          "Thou art no more than a mortal like us: then bring us a Sign if thou tellest the truth!",Wyo ma fea saide zawangi dozhin yi to be be zankpe ndoci'I wun'ayi mini za gaskiyazhi bo wyo dan'o na.
Surah 26:154  ,        "Thou art no more than a mortal like us: then bring us a Sign if thou tellest the truth!",Wyo ma fea saide zawangi dozhin yi to be be zankpe ndoci'I wun'ayi mini za gaskiyazhi bo wyo dan'o na.
Surah 26:155  ,      He said: "Here is a she-camel: she has a right of watering and ye have a right of watering (severally) on a day appointed.,(Salihu) gan:"Nana raakum (yan Soko uyio) uyi be efo nuwan fin'u yin yetso mayibe efo nuwan fin ye yin nayi kpikpeci na.
Surah 26:156   ,   "Touch her not with harm lest the Penalty of a Great Day seize you.,"Ye mae ga la egun ndondo tswan'uma kacan'a azaba yan Efo wanciko gaa de e.
Surah 26:157,  But they ham-strung her: then did they become full of regrets.,Gancin aciu wu acia tinba afe ti ro-- nkpe.
Surah 26:158   ,      But the Penalty seized them. Verily in this is a Sign: but most of them do not believe.,Azaba cia wan akika mini wuncin'o egwa wu zankpe Soko danbo amaade ekundondoazhi ajin muminizhia.
Surah 26:159,    And verily thy Lord is He the Exalted in Might Most Merciful.,Akika ma Tsoci wyoe Ugayi Etsu zankpeo Etsu yegun
Surah 26:160   ,The people of Lut rejected the messengers.,Jamaa yan (Annabi) Lutu zhi aa egan Tucizhi yi ganmana.
Surah 26:161   ,   Behold their brother Lut said to them: "Will ye not fear (Allah),Kamina yegia Lutu gan yaa gan: Ye maa fe zanazhie sundan Soko naa
Surah 26:162   ,"I am to you a messenger worthy of all trust.,Akika mi Tuci mi yio ya ye na mayi eza amaana na.Surah 26:163  "So fear Allah and obey me.Ye mae fe sundan Soko ye mae la mie tu mi.
Surah 26:164     ,     "No reward do I ask of you for it: my reward is only from the lord of the Worlds.,Mima gbin ye gan laada ndondoa laada mi de dan'a sai de be Etsu nae kpa alitazhi kpaata na.
Surah 26:165 ,  "Of all the creatures in the world will ye approach males,Gbani yeafe da keba be baagizhi mini zawangizhio
Surah 26:166  ,        "And leave those whom Allah has created for you to be your mates Nay ye are a people transgressing (all limits)!",Yecie la yinmiezhi na Soko jin ye na lugwa A'a yedeafe zanazhia gbin iyaaka tu na.
Surah 26:167     ,  They said: "If thou desist not O Lut! thou wilt assuredly be cast out!",Agan Lutu! Kagan wyo kegan be egan nanayin'a wyo gaafe dan mini zanazhi yia yan dzun tinya na.
Surah 26:168,    He said: "I do detest your doings.",Lutu gan: "Mi deafe dan mini zanazhie sun-- etun na ye lo na.
Surah 26:169 ,   "O my Lord! deliver me and my family from such things as they do!,"Tsoci! Wa mi dzun to iyalimizhi be bojin dede na e jin nae.
Surah 26:170 , So We delivered him and his family- all,Yiciu wadzun to iyaaliuzhi baenio.
Surah 26:171  , Except an old woman who lingered behind.,Saide za gbako ndoci (yin min'u) wyun'afe dan mini zanazhi jin hallakanao.
Surah 26:172 , But the rest We destroyed utterly.,Yicia zana kenazhi tanfi.
Surah 26:173 ,    We rained down on them a shower (of brimstone): and evil was the shower on those who were admonished (but heeded not)!,Yici dule kpea ele azaba ele azaba na'adukpe zanazhi ajin gangba na wun'a biye.
Surah 26:174    ,   Verily in this is a Sign: but most of them do not believe.,Akika mini wuncin'o egwa wu zankpe Soko danbo ekun dondoazhi ma ajin muminizhia.
Surah 26:175  ,  And verily thy Lord is He the Exalted in Might Most Merciful.,Akika Tsoci wyo ma Wyun gayi Etsu zankpeo Etsu yegun.
Surah 26:176,   The Companions of the Wood rejected the messengers.,Jamaa yan Aikatao tso aa egan Tucizhi yi ganmana.
Surah 26:176  , The Companions of the Wood rejected the messengers.,Jamaa yan Aikatao tso aa egan Tucizhi yi ganmana.
Surah 26:177  ,   Behold Shu´aib said to them: "Will ye not fear (Allah),Kamina Shuaybu gan yaa gan: Yea sundan Sokoa
Surah 26:178 ,  "I am to you a messenger worthy of all trust.,Akika Tuci mi yi yaye yeo na ma yi za amana na.
Surah 26:179 , "So fear Allah and obey me.,Yedea emitu Soko ye mae la mie tu mi.
Surah 26:180 ,         "No reward do I ask of you for it: my reward is only from the Lord of the Worlds.,Mima gbin yegan laada ndondoa laada mi de udan'a saide be Tsoci nae kpa alitazhi kpaata na.
Surah 26:181 ,    "Give just measure and cause no loss (to others by fraud).,Yea tsunwan she ye mae gaafe dan mini zanazhie keu na ma.
Surah 26:182  ,"And weigh with scales true and upright.,Ye mae fe ma yanzhi be tsunwan nayi wangi na.
Surah 26:183  ,      "And withhold not things justly due to men nor do evil in the land working mischief.,Ye mae ga ke zawangizhi eyan'azhi ma ye mae ga fe nyin yan kpeti kinbo ma.
Surah 26:184  ,  "And fear Him Who created you and (who created) the generations before (you)",Ye mae sundan Soko najin alita ye na to alumma yan mafarizhi na.
Surah 26:184 ,   "And fear Him Who created you and (who created) the generations before (you)",Ye mae sundan Soko najin alita ye na to alumma yan mafarizhi na.
Surah 26:185 ,   They said: "Thou art only one of those bewitched!,Agan:"Wyode a wyo jin sihiri kawanyin!
Surah 26:186  ,      "Thou art no more than a mortal like us and indeed we think thou art a liar!,Wyoma fea saide zawangi naycin yizhi. Yi mae kpa wyo ye gan ganmana zunci wyo yio.
Surah 26:187     ,   "Now cause a piece of the sky to fall on us if thou art truthful!",Cin azaba kozhi be yayi dagan sanmao wyun'ayi mini za gaskiyazhi bo wyo dan'o na.
Surah 26:188  ,  He said: "My Lord knows best what ye do.",Ugan:"Tsoci mi de kpikpe etun na ye lo na gan.
Surah 26:189   ,      But they rejected him. Then the punishment of a day of overshadowing gloom seized them and that was the Penalty of a Great Day.,Acia egan'u yi ganmana azaba yan efo wuru cia de. Akika wun'afe azaba efo na gbota na.
Surah 26:190  ,     Verily in that is a Sign: but most of them do not believe.,Akika mini wuncin'o egwawu zankpe Soko danbo amaade ekun dondo'azhi ajin muminizhia.
Surah 26:191    ,And verily thy Lord is He the Exalted in Might Most Merciful.Akikama Tsoci wyoe ugayi Etsu zankpeo Etsu yegun.
Surah 26:192  , Verily this is a Revelation from the Lord of the Worlds:,Akika Alkuranu ma Tsoci nae kpa alitazhi kpaata na ga cin'u beo.
Surah 26:193  , With it came down the spirit of Faith and Truth-,Malaika Jibrilu nayi eza amana na ga cin'u beo.
Surah 26:194  ,  To thy heart and mind that thou mayest admonish.,Ucin'u cin be ta yangban wyobo ebo wyo lao feodan mini gangba jinci zhio.
Surah 26:195  ,In the perspicuous Arabic tongue.,Be zhimi Larabci nayi be bayani-na.
Surah 26:196 ,  Without doubt it is (announced) in the mystic Books of former peoples.,Akika ma udan mini Litafi yan mafarizhio.
Surah 26:197   ,     Is it not a Sign to them that the Learned of the Children of Israel knew it (as true),Ngba ukun aya ya'aa na man yan Banu Israilazhio tso kpeu ye naa
Surah 26:198  ,  Had We revealed it to any of the non-Arabs,Daacigan Yicin'u cin ya saashi yan zanazhi jin Larubawa zhia na.(Ajamizhi).
Surah 26:199  ,   And had he recited it to them they would not have believed in it.,Uci gbau yaa afe zanazhia jin imani beu yin na.
Surah 26:200  ,  Thus have We caused it to enter the hearts of the sinners.,Acinga ga Yi la'u lodan yangban yan lefi jinci zhibo.
Surah 26:201 ,     They will not believe in it until they see the grievous Penalty;,A a jin imani beu yin'a saide aga azaba na tan na le ye.
Surah 26:202 ,   But the (Penalty) will come to them of a sudden while they perceive it not;,Ucia be be ya be girkui umaayi be kpikpea yin'a.
Surah 26:203   ,Then they will say: "Shall we be respited",Acia fe gan gan: "Ngan amaa pata ya yi
Surah 26:204 ,Do they then ask for Our Penalty to be hastened on,Ngba azaba Yi ga e'din-ye bibe wun'o
Surah 26:205,   Seest thou If We do let them enjoy (this life) for a few years,Kashi wyo leyea ka Yi ga yaa eman-wo izhe yan eya nazhi dokun na.
Surah 26:206   , Yet there comes to them at length the (Punishment) which they were promised!,Gancin yanna Yiajin'a alkawali na ci da be yaa.
Surah 26:207  ,   It will profit them not that they enjoyed (this life)!,Yannazhi e woma beyin kpata na kanga aa kunke ya aa.
Surah 26:208,      Never did We destroy a population but had its warners -,Yimae jin alkarya ndondo hallakaa saide aa yi be gangba jinci zhi.
Surah 26:209  , By way of reminder; and We never are unjust.,Wuncin mayi sinsantu Yi mafe azwalumizhia.
Surah 26:210   ,No evil ones have brought down this (Revelation):,Umajin shetanzhi cin'u bea.
Surah 26:211 ,   It would neither suit them nor would they be able (to produce it).,Uma a -- yin ya aa amade kagbo na agaa jin'u na.
Surah 26:212,   Indeed they have been removed far from even (a chance of) hearing it.,Akika aafe zanazhia pan ke wiwo gaskiya lugwa na.
Surah 26:213      ,  So call not on any other god with Allah or thou wilt be among those under the Penalty.,Ebo acin'o gajin bauta ya kuti ndoci pama ganni be Sokoe ma kacan'a wyo gaafe dan mini zanazhi aa jin azaba nao.
Surah 26:214,  And admonish thy nearest kinsmen,Wyo mao jin dangi yan tsonba wyozhi gangba.Surah 26:215     And lower thy wing to the Believers who follow thee.Wyo mao feo daocio-ya zana ga mitu wyoe mini muminizhio na.
Surah 26:216     , Then if they disobey thee say: "I am free (of responsibility) for what ye do!,"Ama ga bea le wyo ba to gan gan:"Mia egwa'n-wa be iri etun nazhi ye lo nae.
Surah 26:217  , And put thy trust on the Exalted in Might the Merciful-,Wyo mao la'o yaokpe Soko Etsu zankpe Etsu yegun.
Surah 26:218   ,Who seeth thee standing forth (in prayer),Etsu nae le'oye to kamina wyo gae nakin gi gbaro' na.
Surah 26:219 , And thy movements among those who prostrate themselves,To dalo dazhin wyozhi dan taacin zanazhie jin sujada nao.
Surah 26:220,   For it is He Who heareth and knoweth all things.,Akika Soko gayi Etsu nae wo yandondo nao Etsu kpikpe.
Surah 26:221   ,  Shall I inform you (O people!) on whom it is that the evil ones descend,Ngba ega shi tukpa min'yae laabari zanazhi shetanzhie cin ta naa
Surah 26:222,    They descend on every lying wicked person,E cin-cin ta eti ganmanazunci ndondo na mayi lefi jinci na.
Surah 26:223  , (Into whose ears) they pour hearsay vanities and most of them are liars.,A jin afe shi tukpa (ya egan shetanzhi) ekundondoa zhima ganmana zuncizhi ayio.
Surah 26:224,  And the Poets- It is those straying in Evil who follow them:,Ningba zhi ma gbugbuke cizhi eza egbinzhi gae la mi tua zao.
Surah 26:224 , And the Poets- It is those straying in Evil who follow them:,Ningba zhi ma gbugbuke cizhi eza egbinzhi gae la mi tua zao.
Surah 26:225   ,   Seest thou not that they wander distracted in every valley-,Wyo le kendoe aajin ada yaya-gun alamari ndondo o na yea
Surah 26:226 ,   And that they say what they practise not-,Acia jin afe da ganzhi gan yan etun na atsoe loa na
.Surah 26:227 ,                 Except those who believe work righteousness engage much in the remembrance of Allah and defend themselves only after they are unjustly attacked. And soon will the unjust assailants know what vicissitudes their affairs will take!Sai de zanazhi ga imani jin na acie lo tun wangi-wangizhi na aci tun Soko ye dokun aci wa taimako Soko eti jinjin gao baaci na aajin zwalunci na. Bele yin ma zanazhi jin zwalunci na aa be kpe iri ezhe keba nagaayi ezhekebaa na.
