
Surah 2:1,A.L.M,ALIF - LA'M - MIM Harafi guta na-nazhy, bakizhi ayio yan zhimi larabci. Sin santu a yio ya zaeni ndondo na'gae ji kelo kezhin dan gaskiyabo yan Alkura'nuo na baki irinnazhi ga'alafin dozhi ci jin Alkur'anuo. Alitta samazhi to kin ma ‘a ga'gun yekan kpata a la sura ko aya nini dozhin yan Alkur'anu be woa.
Surah 2:2,This is the Book; in it is guidance sure, without doubt, to those who fear Allah,Wuncin ga yi lita'fio ,kelo-kezhin ndondo dan mini uboa, bawu uyio ya za nazhie wo soko dan mini yangban 'azhio amae sundan'una.
Surah 2:3,Who believe in the Unseen, are steadfast in prayer, and spend out of what We have provided for them,Za nazhia gaskiya ya be yanazhi ankaliazhi ma'akezhe wao nan  a mae la salla ku gikini na a mae wu dukiya nazhi yi layaa arziki na fi eko guru zhio na.
Surah 2:4,And who believe in the Revelation sent to thee, and sent before thy time, and (in their hearts) have the assurance of the Hereafter,To za nazhia gaskiya ya de yan na acin de ya wyoe na to na acin de shi-wyo dzo na ama hakika ya de efo zobae na.
Surah 2:5,They are on (true) guidance, from their Lord, and it is these who will prosper,Za wuncinzhi ata etib eko gboro-na fe de dagan nko Tsocia bo na Za wuncin zhi ma a ga yi za nazhi atso gurinao.
Surah 2:6,As to those who reject Faith, it is the same to them whether thou warn them or do not warn them; they will not believe,Hakika za nazhia cin manabo be sokoena, ye'ni uyi eba'abo ka wyo ga jin'a gangba ko ma wyo ga jin'a ma a ga ya gaskiya'a.
Surah 2:7,Allah hath set a seal on their hearts and on their hearing, and on their eyes is a veil; great is the penalty they (incur),Soko'a eyan te ba yangban'zhio to tupka'azhio yebo ma'arupke'a eyeazhio, azaba na ma gbota na ga'jin tabbata ya'a
Surah 2:8,Of the people there are some who say: "We believe in Allah and the Last Day;" but they do not (really) believe,A ma de dan mini zawangizhio za na ' ajin u da egan -gan gan : "zobae na" alali ma ajin muminizhia (ganmana-e-zun'o).
Surah 2:9,Fain would they deceive Allah and those who believe, but they only deceive themselves, and realise (it) not!,A cie le ye gan a ye ta soko to zanazhia imani jin na alali ma ujin zandondo e taa sai eti tacin'atso amma'a atso santua.
Surah 2:10,In their hearts is a disease; and Allah has increased their disease: And grievous is the penalty they (incur), because they are false (to themselves),Batan ndoci fi mini yangban'azhio soko cike zhea batan ndoci la'abea be gancin azaba na tan sarauyin nan ajin tabbata ya'a ebo etun nazhi afe lo yan ganmanan na.
Surah 2:11,When it is said to them: "Make not mischief on the earth," they say: "Why, we only Want to make peace!",Ama ga gan ya'a gan: "Ega fe nyin-yanzhi kpe eti kinbo ma"a tso'ajin agan: :Hakika yi za nazhie ta yanzhidzu cie jin gya'ara na yi yio".
Surah 2:12,Of a surety, they are the ones who make mischief but they realise (it) not.,A' a akika a za wuncin zhi a gayi za nazhie nyi yan nao amma'ade esantua.
Surah 2:13,When it is said to them: "Believe as the others believe:" They say: "Shall we believe as the fools believe" Nay, of a surety they are the fools but they do not know,Gancin aga gan ya-agan: yea imani jin kendoe ezazhi (nayncin'azhi) jin imanina,"Ajin agan :" yi-la imani-jin kendoewawazhi jin imaninaA'a akika atso nnazhiy a ga yi wawazhio ammaa akpea.
Surah 2:14,When they meet those who believe they say: "We believe;" but when they are alone with their evil ones, they say: "We are really with you: We (were) only jesting.",Gancin ka mina aga bea bokeba be za nazhia imani jin nae, ajin agan gan"yi ya imani jin' ka mina uga bea ke'atso dan eba shai-tan nayincin'azhio na, ajin agan :"Hkika be ye yin ga yi dan'o hakika yi delamila kawanyin.
Surah 2:15,Allah will throw back their mockery on them, and give them rope in their trespasses; so they will wander like blind ones (To and fro),Soko'a wo'a gbata dede be emi na'ala na. umaa two gban ya'a danmini ragbanshi bo har aciga na gboye.
Surah 2:16,These are they who have bartered Guidance for error: But their traffic is profitless, and they have lost true direction,za wuncinzhi,a ga yi za nazhi'a egbin shi be bawu'ynao, woce wun cin na'ace na u'dzun be ele yin'a, atso ma,ajin eza bawu zhia.
Surah 2:17,Their similitude is that of a man who kindled a fire; when it lighted all around him, Allah took away their light and left them in utter darkness. So they could not see,Kotoncin yan za wuncinzhi uyi ke kotonchi 'za na ena gun-na, kamina, haske yan ena a"'la she yan nazhi ma"'u gwoba kpata na, soko cia haske'a  wuncin la"ake ya bo, ucia ya fi bazhikozhio acie leba yea
Surah 2:18,Deaf, dumb, and blind they will not return (to the path),Tukpatencizhi, edingizhi, yeboncizhi, ebo acin'o azhin eko gboro bea.
Surah 2:19,Or (another similitude) is that of a rain-laden cloud from the sky: In it are zones of darkness and thunder and lightning: They press their fingers in their ears to keep out the stunning thunder-clap the while they are in terror of death. But Allah is ever round the rejecters of Faith!,Ko ma kotonkoci-ayi ke girgije na'ashe be ele ucie du zhin daga sanmao na miniubo bazhi kozhi danbo to kara yan ra'di, to sanmadzwan,acie la egwa gingini-nazhi fi tukpa'azhio ebo dansu yan tsutsuo akika sokoa yanna kafirizhi dan'yi ninbo na makezhe.
Surah 2:20,The lightning all but snatches away their sight; every time the light (Helps) them, they walk therein, and when the darkness grows on them they stand still. And if Allah willed He could take away their faculty of hearing and seeing; for Allah hath power over all things,(Sanmadzwan wuncin) wun' etsoba ke yan na'a-- ba yeleazhi be ayin na kami ndondo na uga la haske fia na, ajin afe dazan fi miniubo,kamina-ma uga bea shi zhiko fia na a ajin agikini. Dawun'aba soko ba da uga' gan- be gan'woazhiy to ba- yeleazhi. Hakika soko de kagbo ta eti (jin-jin) yandondo.
Surah 2:21,O ye people! Adore your Guardian-Lord who created you and those who came before you that ye may have the chance to learn righteousness;,Ya ye zawangizhi ! Ejin bauta ya Tsoci-ye natso jin alita ye na, to ye to zanazhi shi ye dzo na ko be wuncin ye ga'fe za nazhia tswa soko acia sundan'u na.



Surah 2:22,Who has made the earth your couch, and the heavens your canopy; and sent down rain from the heavens; and brought forth therewith Fruits for your sustenance; then set not up rivals unto Allah when ye know (the truth).,(Etsu) na ta kin ci ci ya ye parae na, uci ke zhea sanma kan gikini tutuci uci du elezhin dagan sanmao, ucie wa yangici sun-sunzhi tinya be ele, ebo ulau fe arziki'u yaye nao. Eboacin'o egala yandochizhi afe tsudo ko yezun ya soko ma ye tso ma kpe (ke ade dozhin soko'a na).
Surah 2:23,And if ye are in doubt as to what We have revealed from time to time to Our servant, then produce a Sura like thereunto; and call your witnesses or helpers (If there are any) besides Allah if your (doubts) are true,Uma ga 'fe gan ye jin shakkajin be yanna yi cin beyn ya wuzhi yi na to, yetsoe be be ka wun'a yi sura niniy na'ayi dozhi'u na wun'ayi eza gaskiyazhi ga ye yio na.
Surah 2:24,But if ye cannot- and of a surety ye cannot- then fear the Fire whose fuel is men and stones,- which is prepared for those who reject Faith.,Ka'gan ye be jin woa to ye ma'ajin woa, (har da zoba izhea) e' tobo wuncin'o e sundan azaba yan ena natso, yan'na aga gun'una uga yi zawangizhi be takunzhi-yin'ona.Ama jin'a tattali jin ya kafirizhi.
Surah 2:25,But give glad tidings to those who believe and work righteousness that their portion is Gardens beneath which rivers flow. Every time they are fed with fruits therefrom they say: "Why, this is what we were fed with before" for they are given things in similitude; and they have therein companions pure (and holy); and they abide therein (for ever).,wyo mao ya'labari yan gban-fa'o-ya za nazhia imani jin acie lo'tun wangizhi na, kede, hakika ayibe emi aljannazhi nazhi nuwan zhie je fi tako abo na.Kandondo na a ga ya'yangicizhi dagan mini yangici sun sunzhi yan aljanna o na ajin a gan:ngan nana ga;ala ya yi ga le'anio (ebo bibe naabe dozhi eyeo nao )a cia fe la'u be ya:aciafe yan nazhi bedozhi na.Gancin ade fi mini aljannazhio yinmi lilicizhi a tso ma ga afe fi mini ubo fife yan yan gbegben-na.
Surah 2:26,Allah disdains not to use the similitude of things, lowest as well as highest. Those who believe know that it is truth from their Lord; but those who reject Faith say: "What means Allah by this similitude" By it He causes many to stray and many He leads into the right path; but He causes not to stray except those who forsake (the path), Hakika soko wun'e sun zunye'a na wun'a la misali (yan gaskiya )wu ye naa ka wunayi be ke emagi yin'o ko be yandoci nagan'acin na. Ammade za nazhia imani jin na ayi be kpikpe kede gaskiya u yio na fe be dagan eba Tsociabo na, amma za nazhia cin manabo be Sokoe cia jin kafirinci na a'jin afe gan gan: kiy Sokoe kpa be misali na na-e beo wun'e la zazhi kun-dondo fi mini egbin'u yin u mae gbin zazhi be'uyin'a sai-de za nazhi yi fasikizhi na.
Surah 2:27,Those who break Allah´s Covenant after it is ratified, and who sunder what Allah Has ordered to be joined and do mischief on earth: These cause loss (only) to themselves,Za nazhie lo alkawali soko ya na, ba ci na u'ta kpankoro na, amae la gingan be bibae dan yan na Soko jin foro gan a la wun'a gun na a mae nyin yanzhi fi mini kinbo na za wunccinzhi a ga yi eza asara zhio.
Surah 2:28,How can ye reject the faith in Allah- seeing that ye were without life, and He gave you life; then will He cause you to die, and will again bring you to life; and again to Him will ye return,Ke'u be yiyi ye cie cin manabo ye cie jin kafirinci be Sokoe nao alalima ye ya'fe eyan tsutsu cizhi bedzo gancin Sokocia ye dan rayi gancin ucia kezhe bea ye wu gancin ebau ga'akuye zheban da tsun'o.



Surah 2:29,It is He Who hath created for you all things that are on earth; Moreover His design comprehended the heavens for He gave order and perfection to the seven firmaments; and of all things He hath perfect knowledge,Wyun gayi za najin alitta ya ye yan yan nazhi fi kinbo kpata nao gancin u cia jin daidai (be yan nazhi ukpa na) lo eba sama,gancin jin daidai har sama gutwaba. Wyun ma Etsu kpikpe u yio yan yandondo.



Surah 2:30,Behold, thy Lord said to the angels: "I will create a vicegerent on earth." They said: "Wilt Thou place therein one who will make mischief therein and shed blood- whilst we do celebrate Thy praises and glorify Thy holy (name)" He said: "I know what ye know not.",(Wyo mao pa) ka mi na Tsoci wyoe gan gan be malaikazhi gan: hakika miga alifa (za na'agi kini ya alamari mizhi nan ) laa shi kinbo. Acingan:"Wyoa la eza dando, za na'a nyinyan fi nin yan'ubo na umaa zhe egya zazhi ya na Alali ma yi ye li wyoe tsatsayin be yebo jin eyo yin, yi ma'ela edzuta zhi dan alamari wyozhio ya wyoe Uci gan: Hakika mide kpikpe yan yanazhi ye de kpikpea na.



Surah 2:31,And He taught Adam the names of all things; then He placed them before the angels, and said: "Tell me the names of these if ye are right.",Ucia kpikpe la'aya Adamu yan sunna eyanzhi kpaata gancin ucia yan-wuncin zhi la'azhi yegboro malaikazhio kpaata ucin gan:"E ya mi labari yan sunna yan nanazhiy wun'ayi eza gaskiyazhi ye yio na.



Surah 2:32,They said: "Glory to Thee of knowledge We have none save what Thou Hast taught us: In truth it is Thou Who art perfect in knowledge and wisdom.,"A ci gan: lili kpata ajin tabbata ya wyoe (Soko): Hakika yi de kpikpe ndondoa sai dai natso wyo ga la cia wu yi na hakika wyoe ga yi Etsu kpikpeo be Estu yan hikima yan'o.



Surah 2:33,He said: "O Adam! Tell them their names." When he had told them Allah said: "Did I not tell you that I know the secrets of heaven and earth and I know what ye reveal and what ye conceal",U ci gan : ya wyoe Adamu! A sunna yan-nnazhi ta ya kamina uta sunna ya'azo na u ci gan: asa mi gan ya ye gan: Hakika mi yi be kpikpe yan yannazhi so fi mini samazhio to kin bo naa Mi ma yi be kpipke yan yannazhi ye jin tula kpata na to nazhi ye'jin swisoci naa



Surah 2:34,And behold We said to the angels: "Bow down to Adam" and they bowed down. Not so Iblis: he refused and was haughty: He was of those who reject Faith.,(wyo mao pa) lokaci na yi gan be malaikazhi gan: E jin sujada (yan cinwan) ya Adamu na gancin kpata' aci da sujada sai dai ibilisu U navo u ma'a gbotika ucia fe dan mini kafirizhio.



Surah 2:35,We said: "O Adam! dwell thou and thy wife in the Garden; and eat of the bountiful things therein as (where and when) ye will; but approach not this tree or ye run into harm and transgression.",Yi ci gan: ya wyoe Adamu! A fedun to wyoe to nyimi wyoe fi mini Aljannao ye mae gi yan gicizhi dagan mini ubo be bagwoe bandondo na ye gae wa mini ubo na amma'a ega tsoba cigban nana ma kacin'a yega fe dan mini azwalumizhio.



Surah 2:36,Then did Satan make them slip from the (garden) and get them out of the state (of felicity) in which they had been. We said: "Get ye down all (ye people) with enmity between yourselves. On earth will be your dwelling-place and your means of livelihood - for a time.",Shaitan cia ta ke emi Aljanna lugwa u cia wadzun tinya ke emi ni'ima na'adan nin yan'ubo na lugwa. Yi ci gan: E cin lo kin sashi yezhi aga zhe makirizhi (eza nanvozhi) ya sa shizhi ye maade adunfeba kinbo be emawoe harda lokaci ndoci.



Surah 2:37,Then learnt Adam from his Lord words of inspiration and his Lord Turned towards him; for He is Oft-Returning Most Merciful.,Ganci Adamu ci gwo egan ndocizhi dagan eba Tsoci u bo (yan tuba jin) soko ma'atuba nau jin nagwo. Akika soko wyun ga yi Etsu nae gwo tuba nao wyun ga mayi Etsu yegun'o.



Surah 2:38,We said: "Get ye down all from here; and if as is sure there comes to you Guidance from me whosoever follows My guidance on them shall be no fear nor shall they grieve.,Yi ci gan: ecin lokin baenio. Amma'ujin-wo bawu ndoci'a fe be yaye dagan nko yan mi bo zandondo na ga mitu bawu yan mi na eyan dasun ndondo a da etiu gwo gan'a amaale yangban nyin yea.



Surah 2:39,"But those who reject Faith and belie Our Signs they shall be companions of the Fire; they shall abide therein.",Za nazhi ma ajin kafirici a cia aya yiyi ganmana na za wuncinzhi agayi egi emi'na zhio a ma'afi bofi tutun yin.



Surah 2:40,O Children of Israel! call to mind the (special) favour which I bestowed upon you and fulfil your covenant with Me as I fulfil My Covenant with you and fear none but Me.,Ya ye Banu Isra'ilaazhi e fa pa ni'ima Mi na mi la'ya ye yan emawo na ye mae la alkawali mizhi eshe Mi tso ga alkawali yezhi she ye mae lae fe za nazhie sundan mi na.



Surah 2:41,And believe in what I reveal confirming the revelation which is with you and be not the first to reject Faith therein nor sell My Signs for a small price; and fear Me and Me alone.,Ye mae la imani e jin be yan na mi cin be ya ye na e la gaskiya dan natso dan be ye yin na ye mae ga'afe kakanca yan za nazhiajin kafirinci be'u yin na ma. Ye mae ga la aya mizhi da shi ewodegi yan izhe ma. Ye mae sundan Mi gba'ugi



Surah 2:42,And cover not Truth with falsehood nor conceal the Truth when ye know (what it is).,Ye ga la gaskiya a bo keba be ganmae ma ye cie lagaskiya swo yetso ma kpe (ke wuncin gyea na).



Surah 2:43And be steadfast in prayer; practise regular charity; and bow down your heads with those who bow down (in worship).Ye mae la sallae kuegikini ye mae la zakka dukiya yezhie wa ye mae fe jin ruk'u ganni be za na zhie jin rukuu nae.



Surah 2:44,Do ye enjoin right conduct on the people and forget (To practise it) yourselves and yet ye study the Scripture Will ye not understand,Ngba ye yea fe jin zawangizhi umurni be lwilwo yan etun alheriy yetso mae la eti tacin yetso batan yetso mae gba litafi (elwo be zhin'y) kashi ye de ankali dea.



Surah 2:45,Nay seek (Allah´s) help with patient perseverance and prayer: It is indeed hard except to those who bring a lowly spirit,Ye mae fe wa taimako (soko) be jin jin hankuriy be salla jin'y. Akika ma eyan uyio na wancin uma lukpin na sai-dai ya za nazhi gae sundan soko na. (wyun'e lazhe eyan finfan ci).



Surah 2:46,Who bear in mind the certainty that they are to meet their Lord and that they are to return to Him.,za nazhi a akika la'dan kede a ya be gun be Tsocia'a yin nae be akikae ma eba'u ga a ya'a zheban lo na.



Surah 2:47,Children of Israel! call to mind the (special) favour which I bestowed upon you and that I preferred you to all other (for My Message),Ya ye Banu Isra'ilazhi! Efe pa ni'ima Mizhi nazhi mi la ya ye yan emawozhi na kema be akikae mia ye ya falala (daraja) ta eti alittazhio na.



Surah 2:48,Then guard yourselves against a day when one soul shall not avail another nor shall intercession be accepted for her nor shall compensation be taken from her nor shall anyone be helped (from outside).,Ye mae sundan yan efo nini kete ndoci fo wuncin rayi ndondo wun'a gwogwa wo ya rayi ndoci be yandoci yin'a ama'agwo gwatan egwa rayi ndondo boa ama'agwo sisa yan rayi be yandoci yin'a zandondo ma danbo a jin'a taimako'a.



Surah 2:49,And remember We delivered you from the people of Pharaoh: They set you hard tasks and punishments slaughtered your sons and let your women-folk live; therein was a tremendous trial from your Lord.,(yamae fe pa) lokaci na yi gwo yetswa dagan egwa jema'a yan fir'awnazhio na kanga afe jin ye azaba dedezhi afe wan egi bagi yezhi zun acie la egi yinzagiezhi lugwa be rayia yin. Mini wuncin'o mimacinle danbo dagan eba Tsoci ye bo mimacinle na gbota na.



Surah 2:50,And remember We divided the sea for you and saved you and drowned Pharaoh´s people within your very sight.,(Ye mae pa) lokaci na yi yaa edu lafi ebo yebo na yi cia ye gwotswa yicia jama'a yan fir'awnazhi gbinfi eduo kanga ma ye tso fe' cin'ale.



Surah 2:51,And remember We appointed forty nights for Moses and in his absence ye took the calf (for worship) and ye did grievous wrong.,(Ye mae fe pa) lokaci na yi la alkawali yan yeshi shiba be Musa ena gancin ye ci da nanko la fewun zuma'n'u bo ye cia fe azwalumizhi.



Surah 2:52,Even then We did forgive you; there was a chance for you to be grateful.,Gan ci yi ci fa be ye yin zuma wuncin'o watakila be wuncin'y yeajin yebo (ya soko).



Surah 2:52,Even then We did forgive you; there was a chance for you to be grateful.,Gan ci yi ci fa be ye yin zuma wuncin'o watakila be wuncin'y yeajin yebo (ya soko).


Surah 2:53,And remember We gave Moses the Scripture and the Criterion (Between right and wrong): There was a chance for you to be guided aright.,(Ye mae fe' pa) lokaci na yi la litafi to egan yekpazhi ya Musa na ebo ujin-wo be wuncin'y ye lae ke eko gboro.



Surah 2:54,And remember Moses said to his people: "O my people! Ye have indeed wronged yourselves by your worship of the calf: So turn (in repentance) to your Maker and slay yourselves (the wrong-doers); that will be better for you in the sight of your Maker." Then He turned towards you (in forgiveness): For He is Oft-Returning Most Merciful.,Lokaci na musa gan-gan be jama'a yan'uzhi na ugan: yaye jama'a yan mizhi! Akika ye ya eti tacin ye jin gun be nanko gigi na ye la cife jin bawta ya na ebo acin'o yea tuba jin lo eba etsu na jin alitta ye na ye'gun eti tacin yetso kun(ye'a eti tacin ye wu)wuncin gayi alheri yaye eba Etsu na jin alitta ye na bo. Etsu wuncin ma'agwo tuba ye. Akika wyika Soko wyun ga yi Etsu nae gwo tuba nao wyun ga ma yi etsu yegun'o.



Surah 2:55,And remember ye said: "O Moses! We shall never believe in thee until we see Allah manifestly" but ye were dazed with thunder and lighting even as ye looked on.,To lokaci na ye gan gan. Ya wyoe musa!Yi ga jin imani ebo eganwyo boa sai yi ga Soko' otso leye yele yan gbangba gancin eduku yan sanma cia wangi yetso ma fecinbale.



Surah 2:56,Then We raised you up after your death: Ye had the chance to be grateful.,Gancin yi cia ye la'nakin baci na ye'a tsu na watakila be wuncin'y ye'a jin yebo ya Soko.



Surah 2:56,And We gave you the shade of clouds and sent down to you Manna and quails saying: "Eat of the good things We have provided for you:" (But they rebelled); to us they did no harm but they harmed their own souls.,Yi cia girgijie la' akan wuru ta eti yebo. Yi ma yangici yan manna (managi uyio ke efu na)be soya nakan yan (lukukuzhi)cin bea yaye:"Egi manamanazhi mini yangici wangi nazhi Yi la'ayaye arziki nao (Etun dede ndondomauga' gba arziki soko zuma ma) Ajin yi gun wao amma'ade eti tacin'a tsa ajin gun'o.



Surah 2:57,And We gave you the shade of clouds and sent down to you Manna and quails saying: "Eat of the good things We have provided for you:" (But they rebelled); to us they did no harm but they harmed their own souls.,Yi cia girgijie la' akan wuru ta eti yebo. Yi ma yangici yan manna (managi uyio ke efu na)be soya nakan yan (lukukuzhi)cin bea yaye:"Egi manamanazhi mini yangici wangi nazhi Yi la'ayaye arziki nao (Etun dede ndondomauga' gba arziki soko zuma ma) Ajin yi gun wao amma'ade eti tacin'a tsa ajin gun'o.



Surah 2:58,And remember We said: "Enter this town and eat of the plenty therein as ye wish; but enter the gate with humility in posture and in words and We shall forgive you your faults and increase (the portion of) those who do good.",To lokaci na yi gan:E gandan alkarya nanao gancin ye mae gi mini ubo mae gan'edan eko bae na ganni be bagwoe. Ye mae gan gan :"fa be yi yin" Yia fa be bicicin yezhi'yi ma' abe bolo boloya za nazhielo "tun wangizhi na.



Surah 2:58,And remember We said: "Enter this town and eat of the plenty therein as ye wish; but enter the gate with humility in posture and in words and We shall forgive you your faults and increase (the portion of) those who do good.",To lokaci na yi gan:E gandan alkarya nanao gancin ye mae gi mini ubo mae gan'edan eko bae na ganni be bagwoe. Ye mae gan gan :"fa be yi yin" Yia fa be bicicin yezhi'yi ma' abe bolo boloya za nazhielo "tun wangizhi na.



Surah 59,But the transgressors changed the word from that which had been given them; so We sent on the transgressors a plague from heaven for that they infringed (Our command) repeatedly.,Za nazhi jin zwalunci na cia egwasan la'dan egan'o ke na"agan ya'na lugwa. Ebo acin'o Yi ci cin azaba be ya'dagan sama'o ebo etun fasikanci nazhi e'lona.



Surah 2:60,And remember Moses prayed for water for his people; We said: "Strike the rock with thy staff." Then gushed forth therefrom twelve springs. Each group knew its own place for water. So eat and drink of the sustenance provided by Allah and do no evil nor mischief on the (face of the) earth.,To ka-minan Musa fe ba nuwan finfinci jama'a yan'uzhina Yi gan: "A tsukun wyoe'la'azhe takun" Eyenuwanzhi har guwo be-gubae cia la tinya akika zandondo kpe nuwan finba'u Ye. E gi emae fin dagan mini arziki soko ye mae ga nyiny anzhi fimini kinbo ma.



Surah 2:61,And remember ye said: "O Moses! we cannot endure one kind of food (always); so beseech thy Lord for us to produce for us of what the earth groweth -its pot-herbs and cucumbers Its garlic lentils and onions." He said: "Will ye exchange the better for the worse Go ye down to any town and ye shall find what ye want!" They were covered with humiliation and misery; they drew on themselves the wrath of Allah. This because they went on rejecting the Signs of Allah and slaying His Messengers without just cause. This because they rebelled and went on transgressing.,To lokacina ye gan gan: Ya wyoe Musa! Yia jin akuriwo fe lo etiyagicinini nana boa. Ebo acin'o jin aduwa ya yi lo eba Tsoci wyeo ebo u'la yangici nazhie nyi tinya kinbona-n tin'uya'u ya yi dangan mini fini uzhio beeyan rubu'uzhi-be lubasakucin zhi be ezo 'uzhiybe lu basauzhiyi. uci gan: "ye wa gan ye ga egwasan la'dan yanna gye ganna be yanna gbagba gan nae ye'acin dan ezhi ndocio Gancin aci wua be egbae kpata na fi bagao. Gancin aci wua be egbae ganni be yaji'y . A cia zheban be ewunzhe yan soko. wuncin ma yi ebo na afe jin kafirici be aya sokoe na  ama fewu Annabizhi u yibe hakki ndodo yan'a wuncin yi ebo etun lemba na'alo na ama'feza nazhie -- iya ka gan be sokoe na.



Surah 2:62,Those who believe (in the Qur´an) and those who follow the Jewish (scriptures) and the Christians and the Sabians- any who believe in Allah and the Last Day and work righteousness shall have their reward with their Lord; on them shall be no fear nor shall they grieve.,Akika za nazhia imani jin nabe yahudizhi be nasarazhi be sabiuzhi'y (nazhie jin bawta ya mala'ikazhi na) nazhiy ga tuba jin acia imani jin be Sokoe be efozobae na  acike 'lo tun wangizhi na ayibe egagba 'ayin dan eba Tsociabo .Eyan dansun ndondoma'ado etia -- gan'a ama'le yangban nyin ndodonyea.



Surah 2:63,And remember We took your covenant and We raised above you (The towering height) of Mount (Sinai) : (Saying): "Hold firmly to what We have given you and bring (ever) to remembrance what is therein: Perchance ye may fear Allah.",To "kamina yila alkawali beye yin na' yi cia pati la'tu ke eti yezhi lugwa: yea egwa sun yan na yi la yaye na be kagboe. Ye mae fe'pa yan nazhi ga fi bo na ujin wo be wuncin'y ye ga fe za nazhie tswa Soko na.



Surah 2:64,But ye turned back thereafter: Had it not been for the Grace and Mercy of Allah to you ye had surely been among the lost.,Gancin ye cia zuma zheta baci yanwuncin'o ka'ujin ebo falala Soko be yegun'u yin na ta eti yebo na'a daa ye ga fe dan mini eza asara zhio.



Surah 2:65,And well ye knew those amongst you who transgressed in the matter of the Sabbath: We said to them: "Be ye apes despised and rejected.",Be ma akika yetso kpe za nazh -- iyaka gan mini yeboeti efo asibio na. Yi ma cia gan'a gan: "Yea zhe ebegizhia gba na.



Surah 2:66,So We made it an example to their own time and to their posterity and a lesson to those who fear Allah.,Yi cia wuncin la'afe azaba ewun na ebo yan na shidzo dan yegboro na to natso dan zuma'ubo na. uma'u lauzhe gangba ya za nazhi gae sundan Soko na.



Surah 2:67,And remember Moses said to his people: "Allah commands that ye sacrifice a heifer." They said: "Makest thou a laughing-stock of us" He said: "Allah save me from being an ignorant (fool)!"To lokaci na Musa gan be jama'a yan'uzhi na: ",Akika Soko jin ye foro gan ye'le nan-- ezun"Aci gan:Kashi wyoe la yi la miga'afe dan mini jahilizhio na.



Surah 2:68,They said: "Beseech on our behalf Thy Lord to make plain to us what (heifer) it is!" He said; "He says: The heifer should be neither too old nor too young but of middling age. Now do what ye are commanded!",Aci gan: Ba ya yi be tsoci wyo yin ujin bayani'u yayi kiy nanko wuncin yi o Ugan Akika wyun'e gan gan:Akika nanko ude yi tatacin wuncizhi ebo acin'o yea etun lo be foro naajin ye na.



Surah 2:69,They said: "Beseech on our behalf Thy Lord to make plain to us Her colour." He said: "He says: A fawn-coloured heifer pure and rich in tone the admiration of beholders!",Aci gan: Ba ya yi be Tsoci wyo yin ujin bayani'u yayi ke kala'u yiyi nao U gan Akika wyun'e gan gan:Akika nanko uyio kala'uyi wanjin wanjin na li u mae ban na sarauyin na wyin'e fa za zazhi gae cin'ule na yangban.



Surah 2:70,They said: "Beseech on our behalf Thy Lord to make plain to us what she is: To us are all heifers alike: We wish indeed for guidance if Allah wills.",Aci gan:Ba ya yi be Tsoci wyo yin ujin bayani'u ya yi kiy nanko wuncin yin ebona akika nankozhi abedozhi fi yi. Yi. Akika ma yi uga'aba Soko eza yi yio nazhi ga mi tu bawu na.



Surah 2:71,He said: "He says: A heifer not trained to till the soil or water the fields; sound and without blemish." They said: "Now hast thou brought the truth." Then they offered her in sacrifice but not with good-will.,U ci gan: Akika wyun'e gagan:Akika nanko tsa uyio ujin na'ajin foro cie nunu kinbo na;aumae ya yangici latizhi nuwan fin'a uyi be lafiyae wangi  u de etinzhi fi nakan boa. Aci gan: Gbani wyoa gaskiya la'a wuyi. Aci u zun ke yan na ba'a yin jin'a na.



Surah 2:72,Remember ye slew a man and fell into a dispute among yourselves as to the crime: But Allah was to bring forth what ye did hide.,(Ye mae fe pa.) lokaci na ye wu ye wu rayi na ye ci fe la lefi tu dozhi dan miniubo akika ma Soko ga yan na ye'swo na la tu.



Surah 2:73,So We said: "Strike the (body) with a piece of the (heifer)." Thus Allah bringeth the dead to life and showeth you His Signs: Perchance ye may understand.,Gancin yi ci gan: E dan'u yan be sashi'u yin (yan nanko na'a zun na ). Acinga ga Sokoe la rayi dan eyan tsutsu cio umae la zankpeu zhi wu ye ujinwo be wunciny ye ga'azhe eza ankalizhi.



Surah 2:74,Thenceforth were your hearts hardened: They became like a rock and even worse in hardness. For among rocks there are some from which rivers gush forth; others there are which when split asunder send forth water; and others which sink for fear of Allah. And Allah is not unmindful of what ye do.,Gancin yangban yezhi cia wo kpakpara yin zuma yan wunci'o. U cia zhe ke takuna na koma uke wo kpakparae gan takun. Ebo na koma akika mini takuzhio ade na nuwan eduzhie tinya miniubo na . Akika ade dan miniubo na'ajin ucin be ya ebo dansun yan Soko na. Soko ma fe eye-yacia ke etun nazhi ye'lo na lugwa'a.
Surah 2:75,Can ye (o ye men of Faith) entertain the hope that they will believe in you- Seeing that a party of them heard the Word of Allah and perverted it knowingly after they understood it.,Kashi ye'ede fan-fan de gan aga imani jin ebo yebo alali ma wun'afe gan sashi miniabo afe shitukpa wo egan Soko gancin aci gau zhegba baci na wun'a yea na alaliy ma atso yi be kpikpe.



Surah 2:76,Behold! when they meet the men of Faith they say: "We believe": But when they meet each other in private they say: "Shall you tell them what Allah hath revealed to you that they may engage you in argument about it before your Lord"- Do ye not understand (their aim),Kamina aga dazan gun za nazhia imani jin na agan: "Yi'a imani jin" kamina ma uga bea ke sashi atso tson-yin be sashia yin na a gan: Ye gangan gan beayi eti eko kpe yan aziki na Soko kpe yaye na ebo adeba;ala wuncin'a fe hujja eti yebo eba Tsoci ye boKashi ye de ankali dea.



Surah 2:77,Know they not that Allah knoweth what they conceal and what they reveal,Akpe gan soko kpe ena so nan be ena tula nan ya

Surah 2:78,And there are among them illiterates who know not the Book but (see therein their own) desires and they do nothing but conjecture.,Miniabo ma ade umiyyuzhi (zanazhi ma ka'tun gbaa ama maka'na) a de kpikpeyan litafia sai dai egan ecizhi ama de yandondo kpe tsoa sai dai yekpa yan etiazhi.



Surah 2:79,Then woe to those who write the Book with their own hands and then say:"This is from Allah" to traffic with it for miserable price!- Woe to them for what their hands do write and for the gain they make thereby.,Azaba yan zunyesun wun'ajin tabbata ya za nazhie ka litafi be egwa'azhiy na gancin acia jin afe da'gan-gba gba: Nana dagan eba Soko bo u fe beo ade ba'ala wuncin'a la'ashi ewo izhe na gan acia'ana. Azaba yan zunyesun wun ajin tabbata etiabo be iri yannazhi egwa'azhi ka na azaba yan zunyesun wun'ajin tabbata ta etiabo be woce dede nae ce na.



Surah 2:80,And they say: "The Fire shall not touch us but for a few numbered days:" Say: "Have ye taken a promise from Allah for He never breaks His promise or is it that ye say of Allah what ye do not know",Ama ke gan gan; Ena'apo yiyia saide yan efo nazhi yi bibacizhi na. Gan gan: be ke ye la alkawali ndoci la eba Soko na natso ma ye'tuye gan Soko'a le'u ba'na kashi yede wan gan'ezhi wan gan eti Soko yan yanazhi yede kpikpa wun'a na.



Surah 2:80,And they say: "The Fire shall not touch us but for a few numbered days:" Say: "Have ye taken a promise from Allah for He never breaks His promise or is it that ye say of Allah what ye do not know",Ama ke gan gan; Ena'apo yiyia saide yan efo nazhi yi bibacizhi na. Gan gan: be ke ye la alkawali ndoci la eba Soko na natso ma ye'tuye gan Soko'a le'u ba'na kashi yede wan gan'ezhi wan gan eti Soko yan yanazhi yede kpikpa wun'a na.



Surah 2:81,Nay those who seek gain in evil and are girt round by their sins- they are companions of the Fire: Therein shall they abide (For ever).,Acin gao zandondo na ga da cewo dede na har ma lefiu cia ma'u gwoba na akika za wuncinzhi gayi egimi 'nazhio a ma'afi nin yan ubo fi gbegben na.



Surah 2:82,But those who have faith and work righteousness they are companions of the Garden: Therein shall they abide (For ever).,Za nazhiy ma'a imani jin na acie lotunwangizhi na za wuncinzhi gayi egi'mi Aljannazhio ama'afi bo fi tuntunyin.



Surah 2:83,And remember We took a covenant from the Children of Israel (to this effect): Worship none but Allah; treat with kindness your parents and kindred and orphans and those in need; speak fair to the people; be steadfast in prayer; and practise regular charity. Then did ye turn back except a few among you and ye backslide (even now).,lokaci na la alkawali ya Banu Israilazhi na ega jin bawta ya yan ndondo ma sai Soko ye mea fe jin bolobolo ya yanmanci guba'ba to dangi yan tsonbazhi . Ye ma'efe gan-gan wangi be zazhiy ye mea la swallae kue gikini ye mea la zakka dukiya yezhie wa  gancin bo ye cia pan ya (ke eko guru) lugwa.



Surah 2:84,And remember We took your covenant (to this effect): Shed no blood amongst you nor turn out your own people from your homes: and this ye solemnly ratified and to this ye can bear witness.,(Ye fe pa) kamina yi la alkawali be ye yin na ye yea zhe egya dozhi ya'a yema'a yan dozhi tinya dagan emiezhi boa. Gancin yecia alkawali gboka yetso cia fe erizhi eti wuncin'o.



Surah 2:85,After this it is ye the same people who slay among yourselves and banish a party of you from their homes; assist (Their enemies) against them in guilt and rancour; and if they come to you as captives ye ransom them though it was not lawful for you to banish them. Then is it only a part of the Book that ye believe in and do ye reject the rest but what is the reward for those among you who behave like this but disgrace in this life- and on the Day of Judgment they shall be consigned to the most grievous penalty. For Allah is not unmindful of what ye do.,Gancin yetso dan na ye zhe egya dozhi ya ye mae la sashi yezhi yan tinya daga emiazhio yacie jin dozhi taimako etiabo be jin jin lefiy be binakun'y. za nazhi yi za win-wacizhi na a ga be eba yae yegwo sisa egwa'abo be yandociy alalima aramu uyio yaye na yea yan'a tinya na. kashi ye ga'a imani jin be sashi yan na litafi gan na yeci ga'ajin kafirinci be sashiy Ngba ki yi egagba yan za na gae jin acin mini yebo nao saide egba be zunyesun'y dan mini edunfe izheo gancin efo alkiyamiy aga'aku da'afi azaba na tan gan nao. Akika ma soko yayea ke yan nazhi ye'jin na lugwa'a.



Surah 2:86,These are the people who buy the life of this world at the price of the Hereafter: their penalty shall not be lightened nor shall they be helped.,za wuncizhi agayio za nazhia emawo edunfe izhe shi be edunfe yan alkiyamiy nao ebo acin'o soko'ajin sauki yan azaba ya'aa ama'ade zando jin'a taimakoa.



Surah 2:87,We gave Moses the Book and followed him up with a succession of messengers; We gave Jesus the son of Mary Clear (Signs) and strengthened him with the holy spirit. Is it that whenever there comes to you a messenger with what ye yourselves desire not .ye are puffed up with pride- Some ye called impostors and others ye slay!,Akika ma yi la litafi a ya Musa yi cia Tucizhi gba'u zunma'o be yi cia bayani be hujjazhiy la'aya Isa egi Maryamu yi ci u ya kagbo be Rayililiciy (ugayi Jibrilu o).Ngba kamindondo na tuci ga be ya ye be yanna ba yangbanye yea na ye'a gbotika bea yin yecia kansan ndoci yi ganmana kansan ndoci ma ye la'a wu.



Surah 2:88,They say "Our hearts are the wrappings (which preserve Allah´s Word: we need no more)." Nay Allah´s curse is on them for their blasphemy: Little is it they believe.,A ci gan: "yangban yi zhi'a tsu" A'a soko dea bo'mi ebo kafirinci naejin na za degi miniabo gae jin imani o.



Surah 2:89,And when there comes to them a Book from Allah confirming what is with them- although from of old they had prayed for victory against those without Faith- when there comes to them that which they (should) have recognised they refuse to believe in it but the curse of Allah is on those without Faith.,Kamina litafi be ya'a dagan eba soko na natso mae wu gaskiya yan yannazhi fi gwa'abo na amaafe kanga afe wa taimako ta eti yan kafirizhio. Kamina yanna akpeye cie wa na be dabe ya'a na 'ajin kafirinci beu yin ebo acin'o emibo yan soko cia jin tabbata ta eti kafirizhio.



Surah 2:90,Miserable is the price for which they have sold their souls in that they deny (the revelation) which Allah has sent down in insolent envy that Allah of His Grace should send it to any of His servants He pleases: Thus have they drawn on themselves Wrath upon Wrath. And humiliating is the punishment of those who reject Faith.,Tir jam be yan na ada la rayizhi shi na na har ajin kafirinci be yanna soko cin beyn na ebo yangban dedeo naejin be falala soko na'ucin yan'u be ya za na ga bau mini wuzhi'u zhio na. Acia zheban be fushi eti fushio. Akika azaba yan zunyesun ajin tabbata ya kafirizhi.



Surah 2:91,When it is said to them "Believe in what Allah Hath sent down "they say "We believe in what was sent down to us:" yet they reject all besides even if it be Truth confirming what is with them. Say: "Why then have ye slain the prophets of Allah in times gone by if ye did indeed believe",Kamina aga gan'a gan: "Yea imani jin be yan na soko cin beyn na." A'jin agan: Yi ye jin imani jin be ya na aga cin be yayi nae acie la'ajin kafirinci be ndoci na ga dan zuma ubo na alali ma wuncin ga yi gaskiyao natsoe tagwa lawu gaskiya natso gwa'abo nao. Gan gan: kiy be la ye cie wu Annabi soko zhio wun'ayi gan muminizhi ga yeyi gao nao.



Surah 2:92,There came to you Moses with clear (Signs); yet ye worshipped the calf (Even) after that and ye did behave wrongfully.,Akika ma Musa be ya ye be bayani yan hujjazhiy gancin yeci da nanko la Tsoci cife'wun zuma'ubo ye cia fe azwalumizhi.



Surah 2:93,And remember We took your covenant and We raised above you (the towering height) of Mount (Sinai): (Saying): "Hold firmly to what We have given you and hearken (to the Law)": They said:We hear and we disobey:" And they had to drink into their hearts (of the taint) of the calf because of their Faithlessness. Say: "Vile indeed are the behests of your Faith if ye have any faith!",(Ye mae pa) lokaci na yi la alkawali be ye yin na yi cia pati la'atu ke eti yezhi lugwana (Yi ci gan ye gan:ye'a egwa sun yan na yi la'a yaye na be kagboe ye mae fe wogan) "A ci gan:"yi wo yi ma navo (yi gwoa)' A cia cin-cin yan nanko wuncin" la'a sa fia yangba'o ebo kafirinci'abo. Gan gan: Tir jam be iri yan nazhi imani ye wun'ejin ye foro gan ye'jin na wun'ayi za gaskiyazhi ye yio na.



Surah 2:94,Say: "If the last Home with Allah be for you specially and not for anyone else then seek ye for death if ye are sincere.",Gan gan: wun'ayi gan Emi yan alkiyami (efo zoba)tsitsaci u yio ya ye daneba soko bo ke zawangizhi kpata lugwao ejin guri yan ajali (ebo yedae tsun Soko) wun'ayi za gaskiyazhi ye yio na.



Surah 2:95,But they will never seek for death on account of the (sins) which their hands have sent on before them. and Allah is well-acquainted with the wrong-doers.,A ma'a kara jin guri wuncin'a har da zoba izhea ebo dansun etun dedezhi nazhi egwa'atsozhi lo nao. Soko ma yi be kpikpe be iri yanna azwalumizhi ga dan'y ninbo na.



Surah 2:96,Thou wilt indeed find them of all people most greedy of life-even more than the idolaters: Each one of them wishes He could be given a life of a thousand years: But the grant of such life will not save him from (due) punishment. For Allah sees well all that they do.,Wyo ma'a tsun'n a ga yi za nazhi de cincin rayuwa izhe gan zazhi nao; ade cincin izhe gan to za nazhie la'yan pa Soko baci na. zaeni miniabo wun'ajin ufe wa ko wun'ga'ade izhe le yan eya kpautsun wuncin ma u'ala kpeya wo be azaba yin'a ka'aga yau cia de le na. Soko mae cin ale be iri etun nazhi'e lo na.



Surah 2:97,Say: Whoever is an enemy to Gabriel-for he brings down the (revelation) to thy heart by Allah´s will a confirmation of what went before and guidance and glad tidings for those who believe,Gan gan: zandondo na ga azhe makiri yan Jibrilu na akika wyun ga cin'u be ta eti yangban wyo bo be yarda Soko yin'o wyun'e la gaskiya wu yan yannazhi shiudzo na u mayi bawu be yan gban fae ya muminizhi.



Surah 2:98,Whoever is an enemy to Allah and His angels and messengers to Gabriel and Michael- Lo! Allah is an enemy to those who reject Faith.,zandondo na ga' fe makiri Soko na to yan malaikazhi to yan tucizhi na to yan Jibrilu to Mikailu na to akika Soko tso makiri uyio ya kafirizhi.



Surah 2:99,We have sent down to thee Manifest Signs (ayat); and none reject them but those who are perverse.,Be ma akika yi cin be ya wye ayazhi nazhi yi gbangba na ama-de zana'ajin kafirinci beayin na'a saide fasikizhi (za nazhi le Soko ba gbangba na).



Surah 2:100,Is it not (the case) that every time they make a covenant some party among them throw it aside- Nay Most of them are faithless.,Kashi kandondo na aga'a alkawali jinna zandocizhi miniabo uce ya ci zumao A'a ekudondoa ejin imania.



Surah 2:101,And when there came to them a messenger from Allah confirming what was with them a party of the people of the Book threw away the Book of Allah behind their backs as if (it had been something) they did not know!,Kamina tuci be ya'a dagan eba Soko na namae la gaskiyabo wu yan yanna dan ganni be ayin na zandocizhi mini za nazhi ala litafi yana a litafi Soko la'ace ya ci zuma'abo aci fejin bojin ke ad kpikpea na.



Surah 2:102,They followed what the evil ones gave out (falsely) against the power of Solomon: the blasphemers Were not Solomon but the evil ones teaching men Magic and such things as came down at babylon to the angels Harut and Marut. But neither of these taught anyone (Such things) without saying: "We are only for trial; so do not blaspheme." They learned from them the means to sow discord between man and wife. But they could not thus harm anyone except by Allah´s permission. And they learned what harmed them not what profited them. And they knew that the buyers of (magic) would have no share in the happiness of the Hereafter. And vile was the price for which they did sell their souls if they but knew!,Acia emi tu katun na shaitan egba ya'a eti mulki Sulaimauo na Sulaiymanu ma ujin kafirincia ama de shaitanzhi ga jin kafiricio. E'la katun (sihri) eyan ma wu zazhi be yanna acin be ya malaika guba kin yan yan Babilao na wa'ato haruta be marutae. Ama la katun wu zandondo lea sai aga' ganyau gan: akika fitina tsa yiyio eboacin'o gajin kafirinci ma. Ezazhi cife wa ilimi yan nazhi aga'agan eba be nyinmi'u yin na dagan gwataabo. za wunchinzhi na zhie man yan na ala'ujin zandondo egun woa saide be yeda Sokoe. Acie wa kpikpe za yan nazhia jin'a gun uma'ajin'a anfanindondo'a na za. Da'akika ma atso kpe ke zandondo na ga da shi kpikpe (dede) wuncin na ude rabo ndondo ke dan alkiyamiboa. Bibi gwosun wun'ajin tabbata ya yan na ada shi ganni be rayia yin na da'aci gan akpe-kpe na.



Surah 2:103,If they had kept their Faith and guarded themselves from evil far better had been the reward from their Lord if they but knew!,Da'acin gan be akika a imani jin aci sunda yan Soko da egagba na'ade dagan nko Soko na uga fe alheri ya'a da'aci gan ade kpikpi de na.





Surah 2:104,O ye of Faith! Say not (to the Messenger) words of ambiguous import but words of respect; and hearken (to him): To those without Faith is a grievous punishment.,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na! Ega gan ga'n "ra'ina" ma amma ye' gan gan (unzurna) patp ya yi degi ye mae shitukpa. Azaba na ma tan na wun'ajin tabbata ya kafirizhi. (Raina kalma uyio na kafirizhi ela lamina).



Surah 2:105,It is never the wish of those without Faith among the People of the Book nor of the Pagans that anything good should come down to you from your Lord. But Allah will choose for His special Mercy whom He will - for Allah is Lord of grace abounding.,za nazhia'jin kafirinci mini za ba litafi zhio na to za nazhie la yan pa Soko ba ci na e' wa gan alhairi ucin'u be uyaye dagan eba tsoci yeboa. Soko ma wyu'ajin ula yegun'u wyu'a tsa za na ga ba una. Soko ma etsu ba gwo uyi na wancin na.



Surah 2:105,It is never the wish of those without Faith among the People of the Book nor of the Pagans that anything good should come down to you from your Lord. But Allah will choose for His special Mercy whom He will - for Allah is Lord of grace abounding.,za nazhia'jin kafirinci mini za ba litafi zhio na to za nazhie la yan pa Soko ba ci na e' wa gan alhairi ucin'u be uyaye dagan eba tsoci yeboa. Soko ma wyu'ajin ula yegun'u wyu'a tsa za na ga ba una. Soko ma etsu ba gwo uyi na wancin na.



Surah 2:106,None of Our revelations do We abrogate or cause to be forgotten but We substitute something better or similar: Knowest thou not that Allah Hath power over all things,Yan ndondo na yi ga finys mini aya ona ko ma yi la aciu batan na yi yia be be natso gye gan na ko ma kwatoni'u kashi wyode kpikpe dea ke Soko gboka eti jin jin yandondo na'a.



Surah 2:107,Knowest thou not that to Allah belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth And besides Him ye have neither patron nor helper.,Kashi wyo de kpikpe dea ke de akika Soko ga wun mulki yan samazhi to kin yin'o na'a ye ma de nda kata ndoci to taimako jinci agan sokoa.



Surah 2:108,Would ye question your Messenger as Moses was questioned of old but whoever changeth from Faith to Unbelief Hath strayed without doubt from the even way.,Kashiye kpakpa gan ye gbin tuci ye egan iri kendoe agbin Musa gan shidzo batso-zhio na zandondo na ga imani sangwa be kafirinciy na akika za wucin'a ya ke eko guru lugwa.



Surah 2:109,Quite a number of the People of the Book wish they could Turn you (people) back to infidelity after ye have believed from selfish envy after the Truth hath become Manifest unto them: But forgive and overlook Till Allah accomplish His purpose; for Allah Hath power over all things.,Kun dondo mini zaba litafizhio e'jin guri dede na aga ye la'azhe kafirizhi baci na ye yea imani jin'a ni na ebo hasada dede nafi yangban'azhio na baci na gaskiyawun'a tulaya'a ni na to ye'a akuri jin ye mae dzun gan'abo har da lokaci na Soko be la umurni'u be na. Akika Soko de iko ta eti yandondo.



Surah 2:110,And be steadfast in prayer and regular in charity: And whatever good ye send forth for your souls before you ye shall find it with Allah: for Allah sees Well all that ye do.,Ye mae la swallae kue gikini ye mae la zakka dukiya yezhie wa. Yan ndondo na ma ye ga la shidzo yan etun alheri na yea da tsun egagbau eba Soko. Akika Sokoe cin ye le be iri yandondo na ye gae jin na.



Surah 2:111,And they say: "None shall enter Paradise unless he be a Jew or a Christian." Those are their (vain) desires. Say: "Produce your proof if ye are truthful.",Aci gan:"zandondo'ade aljanna gan dan'a saide za na ga yi yahudu ko nasara na." wuncin de yi egan ecinzhi nae cin yan'a na. Gan gan: "ebe be dalili yezhiy wun'ayi za gaskiyazhi ye yio na.



Surah 2:112,Nay-whoever submits His whole self to Allah and is a doer of good- He will get his reward with his Lord; on such shall be no fear nor shall they grieve.,Yan nayi gaskiya na zandondo na ga eti tacin'u la'aya sokona umayi za nae lo'tun wangizhi na egagba wangi ga'ajin tabbata yau dan eba tsoci ubo edansun ndondo ma'danbo ya'a ama'ale yangban nyin yea.



Surah 2:113,The Jews say: "The Christians have naught (to stand) upon; and the Christians say: "The Jews have naught (To stand) upon." Yet they (Profess to) study the (same) Book. Like unto their word is what those say who know not; but Allah will judge between them in their quarrel on the Day of Judgment.,Ya hudizhi ma gan: " nasarazhia kpe eti gaskiya ndondo boa nasarazhio tso ma gan: yahudizhi a kpe eti gaskiya ndondo boa" alali ma a tsoe gba litafi. Acinga ga za nazhi de kpikpea na fe gan'o iri egan nazhi agan na. Eboacin'o Soko ga hukunci jin tsakaniabo be dozhi efo alkiyamiy eti yan nazhie la ce dozhi leba na.



Surah 2:114,And who is more unjust than he who forbids that in places for the worship of Allah Allah´s name should be celebrated-whose zeal is (in fact) to ruin them It was not fitting that such should themselves enter them except in fear. For them there is nothing but disgrace in this world and in the world to come an exceeding torment.,Zi ma ga wu-ye gan za na'a kin kan la'adan masallaci soko zhio uci lugwa a tun sunnan soko ye danboa na'a yin'o cie ke lo tun na uga nasallaci la'azhe wasa naoWza iri wuncinzhiu gwoyin na'a gan dan masallaci'o Egba be zunyesun'y wun'ajin tabbata ya'a dan izheo na ma wancin na ga'ajin tabbata ya'a efo alkiyamiy.



Surah 2:115,To Allah belong the east and the West: Whithersoever ye turn there is the presence of Allah. For Allah is all-Pervading all-Knowing.,Soko ma uga wun eyi lazhin to eyi lozun'o bandondo na ye ga zhe ye lo na baga bo fuska soko latu dan'o akika soko etsu bagwo uyio etsu kpikpe ma uyio.



Surah 2:116,They say: "Allah hath begotten a son" :Glory be to Him.-Nay to Him belongs all that is in the heavens and on earth: everything renders worship to Him.,Aci gan:"soko yi be egiy"lili kpata ajin tabbata ya sokoAa yandondo na fi samao to kinbo na soko wun'a o kpata ma egbagba yau.



Surah 2:116,They say: "Allah hath begotten a son" :Glory be to Him.-Nay to Him belongs all that is in the heavens and on earth: everything renders worship to Him.,Aci gan:"soko yi be egiy"lili kpata ajin tabbata ya sokoAa yandondo na fi samao to kinbo na soko wun'a o kpata ma egbagba yau.



Surah 2:117,To Him is due the primal origin of the heavens and the earth: When He decreeth a matter He saith to it: "Be" and it is.,Etsu na tswa samazhi to kin na u ma ga hukuci ba eti jin jin al amari ndondo wyun dea jin ugan ya yan wuncin gan:"Afe"uci gaafe ga.



Surah 2:119,Verily We have sent thee in truth as a bearer of glad tidings and a warner: But of thee no question shall be asked of the Companions of the Blazing Fire.,Akika yi tun wyo tun be gaskiyae wyo feo ya zaguruzhi labari yan yangban fa wyo ma'ona za dedezhi wun yi ma'alan egan egi'mi'nazhi gbin wyo ya'a.



Surah 2:120,Never will the Jews or the Christians be satisfied with thee unless thou follow their form of religion. Say: "The Guidance of Allah-that is the (only) Guidance." Wert thou to follow their desires after the knowledge which hath reached thee then wouldst thou find neither Protector nor helper against Allah.,Yahudazhi to nasarazhi aga jin yeda be yandondo na ga fe be gwata wyobona'a sai de wyo ga "mi'tu'ekpa yan adini'a gangan:"akika "bawu yan soko ugayi bawuo "wyo ma ga mitu etun yangban'azhi baci yan kpikpe na be ya wye dagan ilimio na wyo'ade ndakata nko yan soko boawyo ma'ade zando na'ajin'o taimako na'a.



Surah 2:121,Those to whom We have sent the Book study it as it should be studied: They are the ones that believe therein: Those who reject faith therein- the loss is their own.,Za nazhi yi la littafi ya na ajin afe ba'u be tswitswa yan hakki gbigba'u za unchinzhi aga ya gaskiya ganni beu yin'o andondo na gae jin kafirinci beu yin na za unchizi ga yi eza asarazhio



Surah 2:122,O Children of Israel! call to mind the special favour which I bestowed upon you and that I preferred you to all others (for My Message),Y`aye banu israilazhi! Efe pani'ima mi na mi la'aya ye yan emawozhi na mi-ma akika mia ye ya falala eti alittazhio.



Surah 2:122,Then guard yourselves against a-Day when one soul shall not avail another nor shall compensation be accepted from her nor shall intercession profit her nor shall anyone be helped (from outside).,Ye mae sundan efo nini ndoci na rayi ndoci wu'n akunke ya rayi ndoci be yandociyin'ana akunke ya rayi ndoci be yandoci yin'an ama'agwo sisa be yandoci yin'a gwatan ma'ajin rayi ndondo anfania ama'ade zando na'ajin'a taimako na'a.



Surah 2:123,Then guard yourselves against a-Day when one soul shall not avail another nor shall compensation be accepted from her nor shall intercession profit her nor shall anyone be helped (from outside).,Ye mae sundan efo nini ndoci na rayi ndoci wu'n akunke ya rayi ndoci be yandociyin'ana akunke ya rayi ndoci be yandoci yin'an ama'agwo sisa be yandoci yin'a gwatan ma'ajin rayi ndondo anfania ama'ade zando na'ajin'a taimako na'a.



Surah 2:124,And remember that Abraham was tried by his Lord with certain commands which he fulfilled: He said: "I will make thee an Imam to the Nations." He pleaded: "And also (Imams) from my offspring!" He answered: "But My Promise is not within the reach of evil-doers.",(ye mae pa) lokaci na tsoci ma Ibrahima cin le be egan ndocizhi na(Ibrahima) cia yandondo la'be gungunci. Uci gan: "akika mi ga wyola'azhe dzoshici ya zawangizhi " u gan :to mini zuriya mi zhio"Ugan: azwalumizhiade rabo dan mini alkali mi boa.



Surah 2:125,Remember We made the House a place of assembly for men and a place of safety; and take ye the station of Abraham as a place of prayer; and We covenanted with Abraham and Isma´il that they should sanctify My House for those who compass it round or use it as a retreat or bow or prostrate themselves (therein in prayer).,To lokaci na yi la emi (ka'aba) cia fe gun-gun yekan-ba ya zawangizhi be aminciy na ye mae tswa swa swalla eba kinigiba Ibrahimao.yi ma jin alkawali be Ibrahimae to Ismaila ke de a'la edzuta'a la'adan emi mi bo na ebo za nazhia fe be jin tawafi na to za na nazhi fi bo na to za nazhie jin ruku'u to sujada na.



Surah 2:125,Remember We made the House a place of assembly for men and a place of safety; and take ye the station of Abraham as a place of prayer; and We covenanted with Abraham and Isma´il that they should sanctify My House for those who compass it round or use it as a retreat or bow or prostrate themselves (therein in prayer).,To lokaci na yi la emi (ka'aba) cia fe gun-gun yekan-ba ya zawangizhi be aminciy na ye mae tswa swa swalla eba kinigiba Ibrahimao.yi ma jin alkawali be Ibrahimae to Ismaila ke de a'la edzuta'a la'adan emi mi bo na ebo za nazhia fe be jin tawafi na to za na nazhi fi bo na to za nazhie jin ruku'u to sujada na.



Surah 2:126,And remember Abraham said: "My Lord make this a City of Peace and feed its people with fruits-such of them as believe in Allah and the Last Day." He said: "(Yea) and such as reject Faith-for a while will I grant them their pleasure but will soon drive them to the torment of Fire- an evil destination (indeed)!",To lokaci na Ibrahim gan-gan tsoci !a ezhi nana la'afe ezhi aminci wyo mao la arzikioya jama'a na zhi fi bo na be yangici sunsuzhiy to za nazhi ga imani jin miniabo be sokoe be efo zobae na. Soko ci gan:"to za na ga jin kafirimci na mia ya'u emawo yan ekadegi gancin micia jin'u kpaka da gun azaba yan enao lallai zoba ma'abiye.



Surah 2:127,And remember Abraham and Isma´il raised the foundations of the House (With this prayer): "Our Lord! Accept (this service) from us: For Thou art the All-Hearing the All-knowing.,To lokaci na Ibrahima fe tu ekpo yan kata (ka'aba) lo fin na gan ni be ismailae .(a ci gan:) tsoci yan yi gwo ekpo yan kata (ka'aba ) lo fin na gan ni be ismailae. (a ci gan:) tsoci yan yi gwo etun nana egwa yi bo  akika wyo ga yi etsu nae wo yandondo nao wyo ga mayi etsu na kpe yandondo nao.



Surah 2:128,"Our Lord! make of us Muslims bowing to Thy (Will) and of our progeny a people Muslim bowing to Thy (will); and show us our place for the celebration of (due) rites; and turn unto us (in Mercy); for Thou art the Oft-Returning Most Merciful.,Ya wyoe esoci yi! La za guba bayi lafe musulumi nazhie ta kpatsun gwo almari wyo na to mini zuriya yizhioala fe musulumizhi nazhie ta kpatsun gwo umuruni wyo na. Wyo maola danna Ibada yan yi akika etsu nae gwo tuba na wyo yio etsu yegun ma Wyo yio.



Surah 2:129,"Our Lord! send amongst them a Messenger of their own who shall rehearse Thy Signs to them and instruct them in scripture and wisdom and sanctify them: For Thou art the Exalted in Might the Wise.,Ya wyoe tsoci yan yi! A tuci ndoci tsa be etun dagan miniabo na'afe gba katun aya wyozhi ya'ana uma'afe la ilimi yan litafi be hikimazhiy wua na uma'a fe ta bojin'azhidzu wangi wangi-na akika wyoe wyo ga yi etsu zankpeo wyo ga yi etsu hikimao.



Surah 2:130,And who turns away from the religion of Abraham but such as debase their souls with folly Him We chose and rendered pure in this world: And he will be in the Hereafter in the ranks of the Righteous.,Zi ma ga'a panya ke ekpa yan ibrahima lugwao Sai de za na ga eti tacin'u san wawana. Akika yi yiu la'afe eza tsitsaci mini izheo Akika ma efo zobae uga'fe dan mini za guruzhio.



Surah 2:131,Behold! his Lord said to him: "Bow (thy will to Me):" He said: "I bow (my will) to the Lord and Cherisher of the Universe.",Lokaci na tsoci'u gan be uyi gan "A'kpatsu ta uci gan mia kpatsu ta ya etsu nae kpa alitazhi kpata na.



Surah 2:132,And this was the legacy that Abraham left to his sons and so did Jacob; "Oh my sons! Allah hath chosen the Faith for you; then die not except in the Faith of Islam.",Ibrahima ma'u la'ajin wasinci ya egiuzhi to yakubuo tso ma a ci gan:"ya wyoe egi mi akika Soko adini tsa yaye ebocin'o ega lugwa tsutsu be lae ma sai ye ta eti hali musuluncio (kpatsun ta ya'umami Soko.



Surah 2:132,And this was the legacy that Abraham left to his sons and so did Jacob; "Oh my sons! Allah hath chosen the Faith for you; then die not except in the Faith of Islam.",Ibrahima ma'u la'ajin wasinci ya egiuzhi to yakubuo tso ma a ci gan:"ya wyoe egi mi akika Soko adini tsa yaye ebocin'o ega lugwa tsutsu be lae ma sai ye ta eti hali musuluncio (kpatsun ta ya'umami Soko.





Surah 2:133,Were ye witnesses when death appeared before Jacob Behold he said to his sons: "What will ye worship after me" They said: "We shall worship Thy god and the god of thy fathers of Abraham Isma´il and Isaac- the one (True) Allah: To Him we bow (in Islam).",Kashi ye dan bo jin-ri'kamina ajiali be ya ya'akubu na lokaci na'ugan ya egi'u gan:"yi ye ajin bawta ya zuma mi bo A ci gan: "yi a fe jin bauta soko na wyoe wun na to yan na nda wyo zhi fe jin bauta ya na nda wyo ibrahima to ismaila to isyaqa tsoci na yi nini gbaugi na yi kpata ma yia kpatsun ta yau eti gwigwo yan foro'o bo.



Surah 2:134,That was a people that hath passed away. They shall reap the fruit of what they did and ye of what ye do! Of their merits there is no question in your case!,Za wuncinzhi ezazhi ayio nazhia gwogan'ani na woce na'a cena wuna'a wuyan ya'a nama yetso ga ce na wun'a wu yan yaye am'a la egan yan etun nazhi'a lo na gbin ye yea.



Surah 2:135,They say: "Become Jews or Christians if ye would be guided (To salvation)." Say thou: "Nay! (I would rather) the Religion of Abraham the True and he joined not gods with Allah.",a ci gan: ye tsoazhe yahuduzhi ko ma nasarazhi kanga ga ye'a ke eko"gan gan:"A'a ekpa yan adini Ibrahima na'apan da eko gaskiya baenio na wuncin ga yi eko la yan pa soko baci naboa.



Surah 2:136,Say ye: "We believe in Allah and the revelation given to us and to Abraham Isma´il Isaac Jacob and the Tribes and that given to Moses and Jesus and that given to (all) prophets from their Lord: We make no difference between one and another of them: And we bow to Allah (in Islam).",E gan gan: yia imani jin be sokoe be yan na acin be ya yi na to yanna acin be ya Ibrahima to ismaila to isyaqa to ya'kubu to yagiuzhi na yi ma imani jin be yan na ala ya Musa to Isa na to yan nazhi ala ya annabizhi daga eba tsocia bo na yi la erikpe ndo ci dan be zaeni ndondoe mini aboa yi ma'a kpatsun ta ya faro soko baenio.



Surah 2:137,So if they believe as ye believe they are indeed on the right path; but if they turn back it is they who are in schism; but Allah will suffice thee as against them and He is the All-Hearing the All-Knowing.,Gancin a gabea imani jin be kotonci yan na ye jin imani be yin na to ake eko wangi dan'ona ama ga zuma zheta akika a lo dan mini ci ce lebao ebo acin'o soko'a kunke ya wye be ayin soko ga ma yi etsu nae wo yandondo nao etsu na kpeyandondo na.



Surah 2:138,(Our religion is) the Baptism of Allah: And who can baptize better than Allah And it is He Whom we worship.,W- cin- dan u yio yan sokozi-ma ga'a ma ecin la'adan yan agyen gan yan soko Yi-ma soko ga yi ye jin baw tayao.



Surah 2:139,Say: Will ye dispute with us about Allah seeing that He is our Lord and your Lord; that we are responsible for our doings and ye for yours; and that We are sincere (in our faith) in Him,Gan gan:"kashi ye gbo 'mi gbo eti hujjao be yi yin dan mini almari Soko'o alli ma wyun ga yi tsoci yiyio to tsoci yan ye yeo yi ma yi be etun iy yin to yetso ma yibe etun ye yin yi mae jin jin adini tadzu ya soko gbaugi.



Surah 2:140,Or do ye say that Abraham Isma´il Isaac Jacob and the Tribes were Jews or Christians Say: Do ye know better than Allah Ah! who is more unjust than those who conceal the testimony they have from Allah but Allah is not unmindful of what ye do!,Kashi ye gangan gan:"akikan Ibrahima to Ismaila to Ishaqa to yakubu to yagizhi kpata afe yahuduzhi koma nasarazhi fe'  Gan gan:"Ye tsa de kpikpe gan'o kashi Soko  Zi-ma ti binakungan Za na'a eri ndoci so dan be'u yin na febe dagan eba Soko'noa Soko ma u yaye ke etun nazhi ye lo na lugwa'a.



Surah 2:141,That was a people that hath passed away. They shall reap the fruit of what they did and ye of what ye do! Of their merits there is no question in your case:,Za wuncinzhi jama'azhiayio na'a-- gan'ani na woce na'ace na wun'awuyan ya na-ma yetso ga ce na wun'a wuyan ye; ama'ala egan yan etun na'alo na agbin ye yea.



Surah 2:142,The fools among the people will say: "What hath turned them from the Qibla to which they were used" Say: To Allah belong both east and West: He guideth whom He will to a Way that is straight.,Wawa nazhi fi mini zawangizhiona a fe gan gan: kila acia pan ya ke alkibla'a na tso akpa tiubo na lugwao Gan gan: "To eyi la'azhin to eyi lozun kpata Soko wun'o umae la za na ga ba'una ke eko gboro.




Surah 2:143,Thus have We made of you an Ummat justly balanced that ye might be witnesses over the nations and the Messenger a witness over yourselves; and We appointed the Qibla to which thou wast used only to test those who followed the Messenger from those who would turn on their heels (From the Faith). Indeed it was (A change) momentous except to those guided by Allah. And never would Allah Make your faith of no effect. For Allah is to all people Most surely full of kindness Most Merciful.,A'cinga gao yi yia ye la'afe jama'a yan tatacinnzhi ebo ye la'e fe eri jincizhi eti zawangazhio tu cio tso ma u'lau fe eri jinci eti yebo. Yi ma la hukunci eti alkibla na wyo ta eti ubo le na labea sai de ebo yi la'iwu za nazhi lamitu Tuci eti gaskiyao na tacin za nazhi zuma zheta acia zheban dan etun dedezhi na. Akika wun'afe yanna gbota na sai de yaza nazhi Soko ga wuba na. Soko ga wuba na. Soko-ma wun'e ta imani ye yakpea. Akika Soko Etsu tosayi uyio Etsu yegun-ma'uyi lo eba zawangizhio.



Surah 2:143,Thus have We made of you an Ummat justly balanced that ye might be witnesses over the nations and the Messenger a witness over yourselves; and We appointed the Qibla to which thou wast used only to test those who followed the Messenger from those who would turn on their heels (From the Faith). Indeed it was (A change) momentous except to those guided by Allah. And never would Allah Make your faith of no effect. For Allah is to all people Most surely full of kindness Most Merciful.,A'cinga gao yi yia ye la'afe jama'a yan tatacinnzhi ebo ye la'e fe eri jincizhi eti zawangazhio tu cio tso ma u'lau fe eri jinci eti yebo. Yi ma la hukunci eti alkibla na wyo ta eti ubo le na labea sai de ebo yi la'iwu za nazhi lamitu Tuci eti gaskiyao na tacin za nazhi zuma zheta acia zheban dan etun dedezhi na. Akika wun'afe yanna gbota na sai de yaza nazhi Soko ga wuba na. Soko ga wuba na. Soko-ma wun'e ta imani ye yakpea. Akika Soko Etsu tosayi uyio Etsu yegun-ma'uyi lo eba zawangizhio.



Surah 2:144,We see the turning of thy face (for guidance to the heavens: now Shall We turn thee to a Qibla that shall please thee. Turn then Thy face in the direction of the sacred Mosque: Wherever ye are turn your faces in that direction. The people of the Book know well that that is the truth from their Lord. Nor is Allah unmindful of what they do.,Akika yi le eye na wyoe zhe lo sanma na ye eboacin'o yi ga fuska wye zheban da alkibla natso wyoa jin yeda beyin na. To a fuska wye zheban da kasanta yan masalaci yan harami beani ndodo na ma yega dan na yea fuska yezhi zhebanda kasanta wuncin. Akika ma za nazhi'a la litafi ya na atso kpe ke nana gaskiya uyio na febe dagan eba Tsociabo na. Soko ma yaye ke etun nazhi ye lo na lugwa'a.



Surah 2:145,Even if thou wert to bring to the people of the Book all the Signs (together) they would not follow Thy Qibla; nor art thou going to follow their Qibla; nor indeed will they follow each other´s Qibla. If thou after the knowledge hath reached thee Wert to follow their (vain) desires-then wert thou Indeed (clearly) in the wrong.,Akika ma ka wyo ga aya yan hujja kpata labe aya za nazhia la litafi ya na aga lamitu alkibla wyo ya'a wyotso ma'alamitu Alkibla yan'aya ka sashi mini atso zhio ma aga lamitu alkibla yansashizhia.Akika ma wyo ga emitu yangba'azhi baci yannazhi be ya wyoe mini kpikpeo na akika wyoe kanga wyo ga'afe dan mini azwalumi zhio.



Surah 2:146,The people of the Book know this as they know their own sons; but some of them conceal the truth which they themselves know.,Za nazhi yi la litafi ya na ekpe'u ye sarauyin kendoe e kpe egi maciazhi ye na.Akika zandocizhi miniabo ajin afe'so gaskiya atso ma kpeacin.



Surah 2:147,The Truth is from thy Lord; so be not at all in doubt.,Gaskiya de'dagan eba Tsoci wyobo wun'efe beo ebo acin'oga lugwa wyobo wun'efe dan mini za nazhie jin kelokezhi-n na ma.



Surah 2:148,To each is a goal to which Allah turns him; then strive together (as in a race) Towards all that is good. Wheresoever ye are Allah will bring you Together. For Allah Hath power over all things.,Jama'andodo mauyi be Alkibla bana ula eyewu na Ebo acin'o efe sa gana be dozhi dan etun alherizhio. Bandodo na ma yega dan na soko gae la bea keba nio. Akika soko de I'ko eti yandondo.



Surah 2:149,From whencesoever Thou startest forth turn Thy face in the direction of the sacred Mosque; that is indeed the truth from the Lord. And Allah is not unmindful of what ye do.,Baeni ndodo na wyo ga tinya na a fuska wye zheda kasanta yan masallaci Harami akika jin jin wuncingaskiya uyio etun nazhi ye'lo na lugwa'a.



Surah 2:150,So from whencesoever Thou startest forth turn Thy face in the direction of the sacred Mosque; and wheresoever ye are Turn your face thither: that there be no ground of dispute against you among the people except those of them that are bent on wickedness; so fear them not but fear Me; and that I may complete My favours on you and ye May (consent to) be guided;,Baeni ndondo na wyoga tinya lo na a fuska wyoe zhe da kasanta yan masallaci harami bandondo na ma yega dan baenio na ye'a fuska yezhi zhe da kasantau ebo zandocizhi be de hujja ndoci ta eti yebo ma Ebo acin'o ega sundan'ama mi tsa ye'a sundan wun'o ebo ma min'la ni'ima mingunmi'nta efi yebo ujin-wo be wuncin'y ye ga'ake eko.



Surah 2:151,A similar (favour have ye already received) in that We have sent among you a Messenger of your own rehearsing to you Our Signs and sanctifying you and instructing you in Scripture and Wisdom and in new knowledge.,Kendoe yi tun Tuci fiye mini yebo n a (ga dan'o nao)U cie gba aya yizhi yaye umae ta yedzu umaela ilimi yan litafi be hikimazhiy wuye umaela kpikpe wuye yan yanazhi yekpe shiboa na.



Surah 2:152,Then do ye remember Me; I will remember you. Be grateful to Me and reject not Faith.,Ebo acin'o efe pa mi (Soko) mitso'a pae ga ye mea fe jin yeboe ya mi yemea ga cin manabo be mi yin ma.



Surah 2:153,O ye who believe! seek help with patient perseverance and prayer; for Allah is with those who patiently persevere.,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na! Ewa taimako be jin jin hakuriy be kuku gikini yan swallae.Akika (taimako) Soko wun'e danbe za nazhie jin hakuri na.



Surah 2:154,And say not of those who are slain in the way of Allah: "They are dead." Nay they are living though ye perceive (it) not.,Ye mae ga gan gan za nazhiy wu ta eti etun Sokona'atsu (ya)ma A'a ayi be rayi (eba Soko) amma'ade ye ye wo san-san wuncin'a.



Surah 2:155,Be sure we shall test you with something of fear and hunger some loss in goods or lives or the fruits (of your toil) but give glad tidings to those who patiently persevere,Yi ma ma ye cinle be ndonci yan dansun'y (kandoci)be madan'e (kandoci)be kike yan dukiyazhi'y (kandoci) berayi (kandoci)be yangici latizhi'y amma'a yangban fa ga'ajin tabbata ya za nazhi jin hakuri na.



Surah 2:156,Who say when afflicted with calamity: "To Allah We belong and to Him is our return":-,Za nazhi kamina miman-cinle ga'dea na'a'jin agan gan:"Akika yi Soko wunyiyio akika ma eba'uga yi ma'zheban lo.



Surah 2:157,They are those on whom (Descend) blessings from Allah and Mercy and they are the ones that receive guidance.,Eza wuncinzhi aduwa albarka be egwa gan'e beyegun'y wun'ajin tabbata ta eti abo dagan eba Tsociabo.Za wuncinzhi ma agayi eza bawu zhio.






Surah 2:158,Behold! Safa and Marwa are among the Symbols of Allah. So if those who visit the House in the Season or at other times should compass them round it is no sin in them. And if any one obeyeth his own impulse to good- be sure that Allah is He Who recogniseth and knoweth.,Akika (patizhi) yan safa be marumae adan mini danna cinwanci yan baeta Soko ebo acin'o zandondo na ga jin haji ko Umura na.le'fi' danboya wyun'a na wyun'ajin da lo dazhin dan tsakaniabo na'a. Zanama ga be jin jin yan etun alheri ta eti wunci'o na To hakika soko Etsu yebo na uyio Etsu nade kpikpe yan dondo na uyio.



Surah 2:159,Those who conceal the clear (Signs) We have sent down and the Guidance after We have made it clear for the people in the Book-on them shall be Allah´s curse and the curse of those entitled to curse,Akika za nazhie swo yananzhi yi cin beyn mini hujja nazhi yi gbangba na ganni be bawuy na baci na yiu jin bayani'ya zazhi fi litafi boani na za wuncizhi soko ga'abo'miza nazhi makun a bo za mi wonaafe boa'mi.



Surah 2:160,Except those who repent and make amends and openly declare (the Truth): To them I turn; for I am Oft-returning Most Merciful.,Sai de za nazhi ga tuba jin na acia etun'azhi yejin aci kezhea bayani bayani jin wangi na Za wuncin zhi miafa beyin'o. Akikama mi ga ma yi Etsu yegun'o



Surah 2:161,Those who reject Faith and die rejecting- on them is Allah´s curse and the curse of angels and of all mankind;,Akika za nazhi jin kafirinci na haracia jin ajali eti kafirincio na za wuncinzhi emibo yan Soko ta etiabo to emibo yan malaikazhi to emibo yan zawangizhi baenio.



Surah 2:162,They will abide therein: Their penalty will not be lightened nor will respite be their (lot).,Ba gabo'afi tutunyin 'oa jin sawki azaba ya'a ama'acin ta ya'a.



Surah 2:163,And your Allah is One Allah: There is no god but He Most Gracious Most Merciful.,Soko nyan ye ma Soko Nini uyio ade Soko ndocia sai wyin Etsutosayi Etsu yegun.



Surah 2:164,Behold! in the creation of the heavens and the earth; in the alternation of the night and the day; in the sailing of the ships through the ocean for the profit of mankind; in the rain which Allah Sends down from the skies and the life which He gives therewith to an earth that is dead; in the beasts of all kinds that He scatters through the earth; in the change of the winds and the clouds which they Trail like their slaves between the sky and the earth;- (Here) indeed are Signs for a people that are wise.,Akika minialitta yan samazhio to kin to egbazhe yan yeshi be igidiy to eya nazhie dazan ta eti eduo be yanna zawangizhie lajin anfani na to nuwan ele na Soko duzhin dagan samao Ucia kin dan rayi baci yan tsutsu'ubo na ucia dabbazhi iri ndondo la'asheu to efe narku na to girgije na Sokojin foro dan tsakani sama be kin yin na akika ayazhi nae wugwa zankpe Soko na fi miniabo ya za nazhi ga ankali na.



Surah 2:165,Yet there are men who take (for worship) others besides Allah as equal (with Allah): They love them as they should love Allah. But those of Faith are overflowing in their love for Allah. If only the unrighteous could see behold they would see the penalty: that to Allah belongs all power and Allah will strongly enforce the penalty.,Amade dan mini zawangizhio za nazhie da lagwasun yandoci ke Soko lugwa na acie la zawuncinzhi la ke yezunzhi na ya Soko . Acie de cicin ya ' ke cincin Soko na alali ma za nazhi jin imani na e'de cincin Soko sarauyin. Da'aci gan za nazhi jin zwalunci naa taye leye lokaci na aga le azaba ye na atsoa kpewo kanga kede kagbo kpata Soko wun'o na ama akpe wo ke de akika Soko Gbota eba azaba jin'o na.



Surah 2:166,Then would those who are followed clear themselves of those who follow (them) : They would see the penalty and all relations between them would be cut off.,Kamina dzoshici nazhia agba(ke Soko lugwa'na)aga agwa'azhi wa be za nazhi fe gba' ana atsoa taye le azaba yegancin ekpa nazhie petu na ciga baya.



Surah 2:167,And those who followed would say: "If only We had one more chance We would clear ourselves of them as they have cleared themselves of us." Thus will Allah show them (The fruits of) their deeds as (nothing but) regrets. Nor will there be a way for them out of the Fire.,(Talaka)nazhi la' mitu dzoshicizhi na ci gan:" Da'aci gan yide dama ndoci de beda'yi ga' egwayi wa bea yin kendoe atso wagwa'abe yi yin na .A cinga ga Sokoela etun'azhi wuao acie ti ro-- nkpe etiabo ama;kara de dzun tinya dagan azaba enaboa.



Surah 2:168,O ye people! Eat of what is on earth Lawful and good; and do not follow the footsteps of the evil one for he is to you an avowed enemy.,Ya ye zawangizhi! Egi mini yan nazhi fi kinbo na. Yanna gayi halali umayi wangi na. Yemae ga la'mitu ekpa shaitanzhi ma akika shaitan makiri yezhi uyio nayi gbangba na.



Surah 2:169,For he commands you what is evil and shameful and that ye should say of Allah that of which ye have no knowledge.,Akika wyun'ejin ye foro jin be etun dede be etun alfashae umae jin ye foro gan ye gab gan lo eba Soko yan yannazhi yetso kpea na.



Surah 2:170,When it is said to them: "Follow what Allah hath revealed:" They say: "Nay! we shall follow the ways of our fathers." What! even though their fathers Were void of wisdom and guidance,Ama ga gan' gan:"Ya'e emi tu yan na Soko cin beyn na"A"jin agan gan:A'a yide ga mitu yanna yi kpeyecitsun ndayizhi ta etiabo na kashi ade kpikpe de gan Baba'azhiade yekpa wangizhia naa amade bawua'yan'a.



Surah 2:171,The parable of those who reject Faith is as if one were to shout Like a goat-herd to things that listen to nothing but calls and cries: Deaf dumb and blind they are void of wisdom.,Kotonci yan za naeyi kafirizhi na uyi ke kotonci zanae ti wu yi dabbazhi nazhie wogan'a sa ide kabara be ewutiy na tukpa tecizhi edingizhi yebon cizhi uga'ayio amade ankali a.



Surah 2:172,O ye who believe! Eat of the good things that We have provided for you and be grateful to Allah if it is Him ye worship.,Ya ye nazhia imanijin na! egi dagan mini eyan lilicizhi na yi la'aya ye arziki nao ye nae fe jin yebo'eya Soko wun'ayi wyun ga ye yewun-wun yan gaskya ona.



Surah 2:173,He hath only forbidden you dead meat and blood and the flesh of swine and that on which any other name hath been invoked besides that of Allah. But if one is forced by necessity without wilful disobedience nor transgressing due limits- then is he guiltless. For Allah is Oft-forgiving Most Merciful.,Akika yan nazhi de ala jin haramu yaye na u gayi musari toegya ton nakan kpu'tsun be yan na'azun eti yan'wo ya zandoci na jin Soko'o naAmma'za na eba ga be yiba'u na Akika Soko Etsu gafara uyio Etsu yegun Uyio.



Surah 2:174,Those who conceal Allah´s revelations in the Book and purchase for them a miserable profit- they swallow into themselves naught but Fire; Allah will not address them on the Day of Resurrection. Nor purify them: Grievous will be their penalty.,Akika zanazhie swo-yan nazhi Sokocin beyn dan mini litafi'o na acie da la'u shi ewo tetengi be'uyin na za wuncizhi yan nazhie'gi fi gbakoabo na ufea saide ena.Sokoma 'agan-gan bea yin EfoAlkiyami yin'auma'ali'a azaba na ma tan na ga'ajin tabbata ya'a.



Surah 2:175,They are the ones who buy Error in place of Guidance and Torment in place of Forgiveness. Ah! what boldness (They show) for the Fire!,Za wuncinzhi agayi za nazhia agbin shi be bawui nao ama'azaba shi be gafarae ngba ke zan nazhi ajin hakuri jin wobe enae nao.



Surah 2:176,(Their doom is) because Allah sent down the Book in truth but those who seek causes of dispute in the Book are in a schism Far (from the purpose).,Wuncin ma yi ebo na Soko cin litafi cin zhin leba dan mini litafio na afe dan minicice leba na akpe ya (be gaskiyae na).



Surah 2:177,It is not righteousness that ye turn your faces Towards east or West; but it is righteousness- to believe in Allah and the Last Day and the Angels and the Book and the Messengers; to spend of your substance out of love for Him for your kin for orphans for the needy for the wayfarer for those who ask and for the ransom of slaves; to be steadfast in prayer and practice regular charity; to fulfil the contracts which ye have made; and to be firm and patient in pain (or suffering) and adversity and throughout all periods of panic. Such are the people of truth the Allah-fearing.,U jin jin-jin adini wangay uga yi fuska yezhi na ye'azhe lo kansanta eyi lozun ko eyi lazhe na'a amma'de jin jin adini wangi uga yi za na'gaskiya ya be Sokoe nao ucia ya be efo zobae be malaikazhiy be litafi be annabizhiyucie wu dukiya natso uyiware na ya dangizhi to ekungizhi to ezagwagbagizhi to eyan swallaku gikini ucie wa zakka dukiyauzhi to za nazhie she alkawali nazhi aga jin na to za zhie jin hakuri hali yan bayibao be hali egun'y na to lokaci yan ekun'y na za wuncinzhi aga yiza gaskiyazhio aga mayi zanazhie sundan Soko nao.



Surah 2:177, It is not righteousness that ye turn your faces Towards east or West; but it is righteousness- to believe in Allah and the Last Day and the Angels and the Book and the Messengers; to spend of your substance out of love for Him for your kin for orphans for the needy for the wayfarer for those who ask and for the ransom of slaves; to be steadfast in prayer and practice regular charity; to fulfil the contracts which ye have made; and to be firm and patient in pain (or suffering) and adversity and throughout all periods of panic. Such are the people of truth the Allah-fearing.,U jin jin-jin adini wangay uga yi fuska yezhi na ye'azhe lo kansanta eyi lozun ko eyi lazhe na'a amma'de jin jin adini wangi uga yi za na'gaskiya ya be Sokoe nao ucia ya be efo zobae be malaikazhiy be litafi be annabizhiyucie wu dukiya natso uyiware na ya dangizhi to ekungizhi to ezagwagbagizhi to eyan swallaku gikini ucie wa zakka dukiyauzhi to za nazhie she alkawali nazhi aga jin na to za zhie jin hakuri hali yan bayibao be hali egun'y na to lokaci yan ekun'y na za wuncinzhi aga yiza gaskiyazhio aga mayi zanazhie sundan Soko nao.





Surah 2:178,O ye who believe! the law of equality is prescribed to you in cases of murder: the free for the free the slave for the slave the woman for the woman. But if any remission is made by the brother of the slain then grant any reasonable demand and compensate him with handsome gratitude this is a concession and a Mercy from your Lord. After this whoever exceeds the limits shall be in grave penalty.,Yaye nazhia imani jin na! Sokoa hukunci yan (KISASI) jin-jin-ga la ajin wajibi ta eti yebo dan mini za wuwucizhio Egi de egiy wuzhibe wuzhiy yinzagi be yinzagiy za na ma aga be jin sawki yandociyau dagan eba yegiubo na to' ala emiatu'ube boloboloe be yi ya yan hakkiy be boloboloe. wuncin sauki uyio be yegun'y dagan eba Tsocio. Zandondo na ga gwo iyaka gan baci wuncin'o na azaba natun na ga ajin tabbataya'u.



Surah 2:179,In the Law of Equality there is (saving of) Life to you o ye men of understanding; that ye may restrain yourselves.,Akika ye yi be bibe yan rayi wangiy dan mini hukunci yan (KISASIO) jinjingae ga fe eza dansun Sokozhi.



Surah 2:180,It is prescribed when death approaches any of you if he leave any goods that he make a bequest to parents and next of kin according to reasonable usage; this is due from the Allah-fearing.,A mau'ula'ajin wajibi ta eti yebo kamina ajali gadabe ya zaeni miniebo na Uga lu dukiya ndoci gwa dan zumao na u'la wasiyya ujin'u ya yanmaci gubaba to dangizhi eti eko gboro. Nana ma wajibi uyio ta eti za nazhi gae sundan Soko na



Surah 2:181,If anyone changes the bequest after hearing it the guilt shall be on those who make the change. For Allah hears and knows (All things).,zandondo na ga'u zhegba na baci na wyun'a wo'a ni na to akika le'fi wuncin ta eti za nazhi gae zhe'ugba nao akika Soko Etsu nae wo yandondo na uyio Etsu kpikpe uyio.



Surah 2:182,But if anyone fears partiality or wrong-doing on the part of the testator and makes peace between (The parties concerned) there is no wrong in him: For Allah is Oft-forgiving Most Merciful.,za na gae be sundan yan zwalunci ko ma le'fi gwata wasiyya jincio na le'fi danbo ya wun'a na wun'a jin gyara tsakania bo na'a akika Soko Etsu gafara uyio Etsu yegun uyio.



Surah 2:183,O ye who believe! Fasting is prescribed to you as it was prescribed to those before you that ye may (learn) self-restraint-,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na!A azum la'ajin ti'ile (wajibi) ta eti yebo kendoe ala'u jin ti'ile ta eti za nazhi shi yedzo nao ebo ujin wo be wuncin'y ye ga fe za nazhie sundan soko na.



Surah 2:184,(Fasting) for a fixed number of days; but if any of you is ill or on a journey the prescribed number (Should be made up) from days later. For those who can do it (With hardship) is a ransom the feeding of one that is indigent. But he that will give more of his own free will- it is better for him. And it is better for you that ye fast if ye only knew.,(Azun yan) efo nazhi yi bibachizhi na uyio ebo acin'o za na ga bea afe u wo ma'a mini ebo na koma uta eti ezhi lo'na (upa ta wo) amma'uga adadi efo nazhi'uga ban na ga da efo ndocizhio za nazhi- ma fife'u ga'azhe wahala ya'a na sisa danbo: ugayi yangici na'ala ya talakazhi gi nao. za na ga be alheri ndoci eti wunci'o na akika alheri ga wun'ayi ya wun'o amma azun na ye'afe na ujin alheri gan ya ye wun'ayi gan ye kpekpe na.



Surah 2:185,Ramadhan is the (month) in which was sent down the Qur´an as a guide to mankind also clear (Signs) for guidance and judgment (Between right and wrong). So every one of you who is present (at his home) during that month should spend it in fasting but if any one is ill or on a journey the prescribed period (Should be made up) by days later. Allah intends every facility for you; He does not want to put to difficulties. (He wants you) to complete the prescribed period and to glorify Him in that He has guided you; and perchance ye shall be grateful.,Etswa yan Azum (RAMADAN) ugayi etswa na'a (ca) cincin yan alkuranu nao bawu uyio ya zawangizhi u mae jin bayani be hujjazhiy ganni be egan yekpezhiy zandondo na ga dan rayio dan mini etswa azun bo na sai wyun'ula azun yin'ufe. Ko ma uta eti ezan'zhilo na wyun' ula azun yin'uga'udan mini efo ndocizhio yegboro. Soko'e kpa bayiba ndondo be ye yin'a. Ebo acin'o yea adadi efo azun gun mi ye mae wan Sokoe cin eti bawu na'u wu ye na wataki-la be wuncin'y ye ga'fe za nazhie jin yebo ya Soko na.



Surah 2:185,Ramadhan is the (month) in which was sent down the Qur´an as a guide to mankind also clear (Signs) for guidance and judgment (Between right and wrong). So every one of you who is present (at his home) during that month should spend it in fasting but if any one is ill or on a journey the prescribed period (Should be made up) by days later. Allah intends every facility for you; He does not want to put to difficulties. (He wants you) to complete the prescribed period and to glorify Him in that He has guided you; and perchance ye shall be grateful.,Etswa yan Azum (RAMADAN) ugayi etswa na'a (ca) cincin yan alkuranu nao bawu uyio ya zawangizhi u mae jin bayani be hujjazhiy ganni be egan yekpezhiy zandondo na ga dan rayio dan mini etswa azun bo na sai wyun'ula azun yin'ufe. Ko ma uta eti ezan'zhilo na wyun' ula azun yin'uga'udan mini efo ndocizhio yegboro. Soko'e kpa bayiba ndondo be ye yin'a. Ebo acin'o yea adadi efo azun gun mi ye mae wan Sokoe cin eti bawu na'u wu ye na wataki-la be wuncin'y ye ga'fe za nazhie jin yebo ya Soko na.



Surah 2:186,When My servants ask thee concerning Me I am indeed close (to them): I listen to the prayer of every suppliant when he calleth on Me: Let them also with a will Listen to My call and believe in Me: That they may walk in the right way.,Be ma wuzhi mizi ga be gbin wyogan eti mi bo akika mi Tsonba-ci miyio mie gwo aduwa yan zanaejin aduwa na kandondo na uga yi mi na. Ebo acin' oa fea wa gwigwo yan mi ujinwo be wuncin'y aga ke eko gboro.



Surah 2:187,Permitted to you on the night of the fasts is the approach to your wives. They are your garments and ye are their garments. Allah knoweth what ye used to do secretly among yourselves; but He turned to you and forgave you; so now associate with them and seek what Allah Hath ordained for you and eat and drink until the white thread of dawn appear to you distinct from its black thread; then complete your fast Till the night appears; but do not associate with your wives while ye are in retreat in the mosques. Those are Limits (set by) Allah: Approach not nigh thereto. Thus doth Allah make clear His Signs to men: that they may learn self-restraint.,U u la'azhe halali yaye dan mini yeshi yan azum bo bake na ye yea ke be yimi yezhi na A (nyinmiyezhi) tufuwazhi ayi ya ye yeo yetso ma (ebazhi) tufuwazhi ye yi ya'ao. Soko de kpikpe kede yeyeafe za nazhie ta eti tacin'e na.Ebo acin'o Sokoa tuba na yejin na gwo uma'fa be yeyin. To gbani ye keba be'ayin wo ye mae wa alheri na Sokoka yaye dan nakan dozhio na ye mae fe gi yemae fe fin har da lokaci na batin ga'tula dagan mini yeshio dan lokaci lila yan alfijiri na gancin ye cie la azum ye gunmi da yeshi. Ye mae ga keba be nyinmiezhi kami na ye ga' fedun (I'itikafu) ibada jin dan masallacio na ma. Wuncinzhi doka Soko (zhi) ayio ega kara tsoba'a eti gbingbin-tuoma. Acinga ga Soko ejin bayani yan ayauzhi ya zawangizhio ujinwo be wuncin'y alafe eza dasun Soko(zhi).



Surah 2:188,And do not eat up your property among yourselves for vanities nor use it as bait for the judges with intent that ye may eat up wrongfully and knowingly a little of (other) people´s property.,Ye mae gagi dukiyadozhi tsa kani ebo eti ganmanao ma ye mae ga din dukiya dozhi gwalo eba hukumazhi ma ebo kansan ndoci na yetsoa degi bo eti le fio nama alali ma yetso kpe (ke etun wuncin gye'a na).



Surah 2:189,They ask thee concerning the New Moons. Say: They are but signs to mark fixed periods of time in (the affairs of) men and for Pilgrimage. It is no virtue if ye enter your houses from the back: It is virtue if ye fear Allah. Enter houses through the proper doors: And fear Allah: That ye may prosper.,E'gbin wyo gan eti tswangi worozhio. Gan gan: Eyan ayio na zawanagizhie la'akpelokacizhi ye kakayin na to yan Hajji na. Uma jin etun wangi uyi na yea fe lo emizazhi dagan zumantao na'a amaade bolobolo uga yi dasun yanSoko'o ye mae fe gan' edan emizhio dagan ekoazhio ye mae sundan Soko ujin wo be wuncin'y ye ga'ade nasara.



Surah 2:190,Fight in the cause of Allah those who fight you but do not transgress limits; for Allah loveth not transgressors.,Ye mae gun 'kun eti eko Soko'o be zanazhi gae gun ye kun na ye mae ga gwo iyaka gan ma ebo na akika Soko e wa za nazhie gwo iyaka gan na'a.



Surah 2:191,And slay them wherever ye catch them and turn them out from where they have Turned you out; for tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter; but fight them not at the Sacred Mosque unless they (first) fight you there; but if they fight you slay them. Such is the reward of those who suppress faith.,Ye mae gun 'kun bandondo nan yega tswoa gwa na ye mae nyan'aadzun'a tin'aya dagan banazhi atso nyan ye dzun' tinya na fitina ma u gbota gan eza wu. Ye mae ga gun'akun eba masallaci Haramio ma sai ka mi na atso ga gun ye bagao na. Ebo acin'o aga gun ye 'kun yetso gun'akun ga. Acin ga ga egagba yan kafirizhi yio.
Surah 2:192,But if they cease Allah is Oft-forgiving Most Merciful.,Ama ga bea lugwa (a cigun yekun'a) To akika Soko Etsu gafara u yio Etsu yegun uyio.



Surah 2:193,And fight them on until there is no more Tumult or oppression and there prevail justice and faith in Allah; but if they cease Let there be no hostility except to those who practise oppression.,Ye mae gun'a kun har fitina ndondo 'u ga ke ma adini ma ula'uzhe yan Soko gbaugi. Aga bea lugwa (aci gun ye ekun'a) to ewun ndondo ke bea sai de be azwalumizhi'y.



Surah 2:194,The prohibited month for the prohibited month- and so for all things prohibited- there is the law of equality. If then any one transgresses the prohibition against you Transgress ye likewise against him. But fear Allah and know that Allah is with those who restrain themselves.,(Agagun ye) Etswa Alfurmao (yetso gun'a) dan etswa Alfurmazhio Etswaa alfurma kpata ma jinjin ga danbo. Ebo a cin'o zandondo naga -- iyaka gan be ye yin naye tso -- iyaka gan beu yin gwargwado yan kendoe uga -- iyaka gan be ye yin na. ye mae tswa Soko ye mae kpe' wo ke Soko ajin udan be zanazhi gae sundan'u na.



Surah 2:195,And spend of your substance in the cause of Allah and make not your own hands contribute to (your) destruction; but do good; for Allah loveth those who do good.,Ye mae fe wudukiyae fi eko Soko. Ye mae ga dingwa ye lo eba yannazhi ajin ye hallaka na ma. Ye mae fe jin bolo-bolo akika Sokoe wa zanazhie jin bolobolo na.



Surah 2:196,And complete the Hajj or ´umra in the service of Allah. But if ye are prevented (From completing it) send an offering for sacrifice such as ye may find and do not shave your heads until the offering reaches the place of sacrifice. And if any of you is ill or has an ailment in his scalp (Necessitating shaving) (He should) in compensation either fast or feed the poor or offer sacrifice; and when ye are in peaceful conditions (again) if any one wishes to continue the ´umra on to the hajj He must make an offering such as he can afford but if he cannot afford it He should fast three days during the hajj and seven days on his return Making ten days in all. This is for those whose household is not in (the precincts of) the Sacred Mosque. And fear Allah and know that Allah Is strict in punishment.,Ye mae la etun haji to umuraegun mi ebo Soko ama ga bea ye kan gikini eko ye'a yan na ga fan fiye yan hadaya na jin. Ye mae ga wan eti yezhi ma sai hadaya ga tun dan nau. Za na ma gabeajin ci'igun mini yebo na ko ma batan ndoci dan eti'ubo na wyun'u la fidiyau jin yan azum ko swadaka jin ko dabbazun. Ye ma ga'afe dan mini amincio za na ga woma be Umrae to Hajinae wyun'u la yanna ga fan fiu yan hadaya na'u zun za na be dea na wyun'u fe azum yan 'foguta dan Hajio umaufe gutwaba kamina ye gadazhin emina. Wuncin ga gun'u guwo gunguncio. Hukunci wuncin ma yi yan za na iyaliuzhi ajin edunfeci yan masallaci Haramia na. Ye mae sundan Soko ye mae kpe wo kede Soko gbota eba azaba jin'ona.



Surah 2:197,For Hajj are the months well known. If any one undertakes that duty therein Let there be no obscenity nor wickedness nor wrangling in the Hajj. And whatever good ye do (be sure) Allah knoweth it. And take a provision (With you) for the journey but the best of provisions is right conduct. So fear Me o ye that are wise.,Haji uyi be etswazhiy na yi kpikpeci na zandondo na ga niya jin cia cin farilla yan Haji dan miniabo na to wyun'akeba be yinmiuyin'a uma'alo tun fasikancia uma'a da gbo'mi dan mini Haji boa. Yandondo na ma ye ga jin yan etun alherizhi na Soko yi be kpikpeu yin yemae wa dzanna dzanna na ma gyegan na ugayi dansun Soko. Ye mae fe sundan mi ya ye nazhi yi eza hankalizhi na.



Surah 2:198,It is no crime in you if ye seek of the bounty of your Lord (during pilgrimage). Then when ye pour down from (Mount) Arafat celebrate the praises of Allah at the Sacred Monument and celebrate His praises as He has directed you even though before this ye went astray.,Le'fi danbo yaye yea na ye'awa (falala) bagwo dagan eba Tsociye bona'a. kamina yegae gu tinya dagan Arafao na e fe tun Soko ye eba mash'aril Haramio. Efe pa'u ye maetun 'U ye kendoe U wu yeba lo eko guru na akika ye yea fe shidzo batsozhio dan mini eza gbigbincizhio.






Surah 2:199,Then pass on at a quick pace from the place whence it is usual for the multitude so to do and ask for Allah´s forgiveness. For Allah is Oft-forgiving Most Merciful.,Gancin ye cie fe'tinyaezhin danna bana zawangizhie tinyazhinna ye maefe' wa gafara Soko Akika Soko Etsu gafarauyio Etsu yegun'uyio.



Surah 2:200,So when ye have accomplished your holy rites celebrate the praises of Allah as ye used to celebrate the praises of your fathers- yea with far more Heart and soul. There are men who say: "Our Lord! Give us (Thy bounties) in this world!" but they will have no portion in the Hereafter.,Kamina ye ga etun Haji lo zona efe tun Soko ye ke yetun yezhi lo eba yanmanci yezhi na ko ma u'u gboka'u gan eba yetun'o. A de dan mini zawangizhio zanae gan gan: Ya wyoe Tsoci yi! "Ya yi yandondo izheo" uma'ade rabo ndondo Alkiyami boa.



Surah 2:201,And there are men who say: "Our Lord! Give us good in this world and good in the Hereafter and defend us from the torment of the Fire!",Ama dedan miniabo naajin ufe gan gan: "Ya wyoe Tsoci yi! Jin bolo-bolo ya yi dan mini izheo wyo mao jin bolo-bolo ya yi dan mini Alkiyamio wyomao tswa yi be azaba enae.



Surah 2:202,To these will be allotted what they have earned; and Allah is quick in account.,za wuncinzhi ayi be rabo' ayin mini woce na'ace nao Soko ma Etsu uyio na fan Egagba'yn la ya'ana.



Surah 2:203,Celebrate the praises of Allah during the Appointed Days. But if any one hastens to leave in two days there is no blame on him and if any one stays on there is no blame on him if his aim is to do right. Then fear Allah and know that ye will surely be gathered unto Him.,Ye mae tun Sokoe ye dan mini efozhio na yi bibaci na za na ga be din ye dan min'fogubaona le'fi danbo ya wyun'a matka aga tswa Soko aci sundan'u na. Ye mae sundan Soko yemae kpe'wo ke Ye eba'u gabo akue yekan zhio na.



Surah 2:204,There is the type of man whose speech about this world´s life May dazzle thee and he calls Allah to witness about what is in his heart; yet is he the most contentious of enemies.,Ama de dan mini zawangizhio na egan'u wyun'a fe ya'o sha'awa dan mini edun fe izheo na har uga Soko yi eri eti yan na dan yangban'ubo (yan alheri na) . Alalima za dede uyio na gboka husumao na.



Surah 2:205,When he turns his back His aim everywhere is to spread mischief through the earth and destroy crops and cattle. But Allah loveth not mischief.,Kamina uga zuma zheta na wyunalo dan kinbo ebo udeba'u nyin-yan'ufi ba.u mae layangici latizhi to edzo (yan dabba) zhi jin hallaka. Soko mae wa eyan nyin'a.



Surah 2:206,When it is said to him "Fear Allah" He is led by arrogance to (more) crime. Enough for him is Hell;-An evil bed indeed (To lie on)!,Kamina ma aga gan'u gan:"Sundan Soko na "Eti kagbo'ufi be le 'fe jin'y. To'jahannama ga'akun ke yan'u akika ma yantaci (wuncin)wun'a biye.



Surah 2:207,And there is the type of man who gives his life to earn the pleasure of Allah: And Allah is full of kindness to (His) devotees.,Ama de dan mini zawangizhio za nae la rayi'u kun ebo udebaude yeda soko na. Soko ma Etsu tosayi uyio be wuzhi'uzhi.



Surah 2:208,O ye who believe! Enter into Islam whole-heartedly; and follow not the footsteps of the evil one; for he is to you an avowed enemy.,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na! Ye'a gandanmini musuluncio baenio ye mae ga la'mitu ekpa shetanzhi ma akika shetan makiri ye uyiona'atula na.



Surah 2:208,O ye who believe! Enter into Islam whole-heartedly; and follow not the footsteps of the evil one; for he is to you an avowed enemy.,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na! Ye'a gandanmini musuluncio baenio ye mae ga la'mitu ekpa shetanzhi ma akika shetan makiri ye uyiona'atula na.



Surah 2:209,If ye backslide after the clear (Signs) have come to you then know that Allah is Exalted in Power Wise.,Ye ga bae pan ke (musulunci) lugwa baci na bayanizhi dabe ya ye yea ni na to ye' kpe'wo ke Soko Etsu zankpe Uyio Etsu hikima ma Uyio'na.



Surah 2:210,Will they wait until Allah comes to them in canopies of clouds with angels (in His train) and the question is (thus) settled but to Allah do all questions go back (for decision).,Kashi etuye tu gan Soko'u be'u ya'a dan mini wuru yan girgije zhio to malaikazhi ama hukunci jin eti acin'o Eba Soko ga boma a la'alamarizhi kpata 'a zhebanlo'o.



Surah 2:211,Ask the Children of Israel how many clear (Signs) We have sent them. But if any one after Allah´s favour has come to him substitutes (something else) Allah is strict in punishment,Sal bani israila kam ataynahum min ayatin bayyinatin waman yubaddil ni'mata Allahi min ba'di ma jaathu fainna Allaha shadidu al'iqabi



Surah 2:212,The life of this world is alluring to those who reject faith and they scoff at those who believe. But the righteous will be above them on the Day of Resurrection; for Allah bestows His abundance without measure on whom He will,A edun fe izhe panin fi za nazhia jin kafirinci na aciajin afe'la za nazhia imani jin na'mi alali ma za nazhie sundan soko na a ta 'tiabo eba daraja o Efo Alkiyami. Soko mae la arziki a'ya zana gaba'u na arziki na'ayejin lisafia na.



Surah 2:213,Mankind was one single nation and Allah sent Messengers with glad tidings and warnings; and with them He sent the Book in truth to judge between people in matters wherein they differed; but the People of the Book after the clear Signs came to them did not differ among themselves except through selfish contumacy. Allah by His Grace Guided the believers to the Truth concerning that wherein they differed. For Allah guided whom He will to a path that is straight.,Zawangizhi' a fe aluma nini. Soko ci tun Annabizhi fia e'ya labari yangbanfa amae na'a wun umacin litafi be ya'be gaskiyae ebo (litafi) u jin hukunci tsakani zawangizhio eti yannazhi ce leba mini'u mini'u bo na a made zanazhi ce leba mini'u bo na'a sai atso nazhi ala'uya na ba ci na bayani zhi be hujjazhi da be ya'a'ana ebo yangban binakun nadan tsakani'a bo be duzhi na. Soko cia za nazhi jin imani na wuba yan uanna ace leba miniubo yannatso yi gaskiya na be balo eko nasto yi gboro na.



Surah 2:214,Or do ye think that ye shall enter the Garden (of bliss) without such (trials) as came to those who passed away before you they encountered suffering and adversity and were so shaken in spirit that even the Messenger and those of faith who were with him cried: "When (will come) the help of Allah" Ah! Verily the help of Allah is (always) near!,Kashi ye kpa ye kpa gan ye 'lae de 'egan'edan Aljannao alalima koton-ci yan za nazhi shi yedzo na ula 'a be ya ye yeawahalazhi be egunzhi'y tso'agwa'ama dua (be eyan dansunzhi'y) har na Tuci to zanazhi jin imani be'uyin na fe gan gan: "Kankici taimako soko'a beo" To!Akika taimako Soko'atsotso.



Surah 2:214,Or do ye think that ye shall enter the Garden (of bliss) without such (trials) as came to those who passed away before you they encountered suffering and adversity and were so shaken in spirit that even the Messenger and those of faith who were with him cried: "When (will come) the help of Allah" Ah! Verily the help of Allah is (always) near!,Kashi ye kpa ye kpa gan ye 'lae de 'egan'edan Aljannao alalima koton-ci yan za nazhi shi yedzo na ula 'a be ya ye yeawahalazhi be egunzhi'y tso'agwa'ama dua (be eyan dansunzhi'y) har na Tuci to zanazhi jin imani be'uyin na fe gan gan: "Kankici taimako soko'a beo" To!Akika taimako Soko'atsotso.



Surah 2:215,They ask thee what they should spend (In charity). Say: Whatever ye spend that is good is for parents and kindred and orphans and those in want and for wayfarers. And whatever ye do that is good -Allah knoweth it well.,E' gbin wyo gan gan: kiawu dukiya'azhibo Gan gan: yandondo na ye ga wu yan alheri na ewuya'yanmanci gubaba to dangi yan tsonbazhi to ekungizhi to eza'gwagbagizhi to ezhi loci na dukiyau wun'aba eko' ona. Yandondo na ma ye ga jin yan alhari na akika Soko yi be kpikpe 'u yin.



Surah 2:216,Fighting is prescribed for you and ye dislike it. But it is possible that ye dislike a thing which is good for you and that ye love a thing which is bad for you. But Allah knoweth and ye know not.,A ekun-gun la' ajin wajibi ta eti yebo u ma'afe yan na ye ye wa'ana u majin wo ye'fe na yandocievo alali ma ugayi alhari ya ye yeo uma jin wo ye' fe wa yandoci alali ma egun wun' ayi ya yeo.Sokoma wyun tso kpe yandondo yeo ye ma ye kpea.



Surah 2:217,They ask thee concerning fighting in the Prohibited Month. Say: "Fighting therein is a grave (offence); but graver is it in the sight of Allah to prevent access to the path of Allah to deny Him to prevent access to the Sacred Mosque and drive out its members." Tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter. Nor will they cease fighting you until they turn you back from your faith if they can. And if any of you Turn back from their faith and die in unbelief their works will bear no fruit in this life and in the Hereafter; they will be companions of the Fire and will abide therein.,E'gbin wyo gan eti etswa Alfurmao. Eti hukunci ekun na' agun dan mini ubo na. Gan gan: "Ekun gun dan mini ubo le'fi uyio na gbota na. To tite yan eko Soko to kafirinci jin be'uyin to masallaci Haramito nyin nyandzun tinya yan za kin'zhi dagan mini ubo ugbota eba Soko. Fitina ma ugbota gan eza wu. Ama'a pan yeshia a fe gun ye kun ye kun  har sai aga ye gan be adini ye yin uga ga ye jin ya'na Zandondo na ga'jin "RIDDA" na (cia dzun tin ya musulunci o na) wyun' a tsutsu ksfiri. Za wuncizhi ma etun'azhi (na'alo shidzo wangi na) a uyin ya to izhe to 'ku za wuncizhi ma aga yi egi'mina zhio ba gabo afi tutun yin'o.



Surah 2:218,Those who believed and those who suffered exile and fought (and strove and struggled) in the path of Allah- they have the hope of the Mercy of Allah: And Allah is Oft-forgiving Most Merciful.,Akika za nazhia imani jin na tozanazhijin Hijira acia kpe la be yandondo na Soko ya'a na to za nazhie jin jihadi dan eko Sokona zawuncinzhie jin kawna yan yegun soko Soko ma Etsu gafara uyio Etsu yegun uyio.



Surah 2:219,They ask thee concerning wine and gambling. Say: "In them is great sin and some profit for men; but the sin is greater than the profit." They ask thee how much they are to spend; Say: "What is beyond your needs." Thus doth Allah Make clear to you His Signs: In order that ye may consider-,E'gbin wyo gan eti hukunci yan egye becacae gan gan: "le'fe na wanci na dan miniabo guba'ba eyan anfani ma danbo ya zawangizhi amma'ale'fe na dan danbo minia bo na u wanci gan anfani na danbo na".Amae gbin wyo gan gan ki a ya' awu dukiya'abo. Gan gan yanna ga be ke (ta eti uzuri ti'ileo) na. Acinga ga Sokoejin bayani yan ayazhi ya ye yeo ujin wo be wunciny ye lae;fe eza yekpazhi.



Surah 2:220,(Their bearings) on this life and the Hereafter. They ask thee concerning orphans. Say: "The best thing to do is what is for their good; if ye mix their affairs with yours they are your brethren; but Allah knows the man who means mischief from the man who means good. And if Allah had wished He could have put you into difficulties: He is indeed Exalted in Power Wise.",dan mini izhio to Alkiyamao. Amae gbin wyo gan eti ekungizhio Gan gan: "Bolobolona ye'ajin beayin na uga gye gan'o; ye ma gaebo keba beayin (eba eyan anfani zhio u gye) ebo na ye gi yezhi ayio. Soko ma yi be kpikpe yan za na gae nyin yan na kperi be za nae gye yan na umaaba Soko da uga yetso la'a jiya. Soko Etsu zankpe uyio Etsu hikima uyio.



Surah 2:221,Do not marry unbelieving women (idolaters) until they believe: A slave woman who believes is better than an unbelieving woman even though she allures you. Nor marry (your girls) to unbelievers until they believe: A man slave who believes is better than an unbeliever even though he allures you. Unbelievers do (but) beckon you to the Fire. But Allah beckons by His Grace to the Garden (of bliss) and forgiveness and makes His Signs clear to mankind: That they may celebrate His praise.,Ye mae ga jin ynzagi kafirizhi yawo ma sai aga imani jin akika egi ynzagi wuzhi na yi mumini na  u gye gan ynzagi kafiri ka'agae ya yeshawa. Ye mae ga la egi ynzagi ma sai (musulumizhi) jin yawo ya kafirizhi ma sai aga imani jin ebo na wuzhi bagi na yi musulumi na ugye gan kafiri ka ugae ya ye shaawaza wuncinzhie yi ye yi lo Ena Soko mae yiye lo Aljanna be gafarae be iziniuyin. Umae jin bayani ayazhi ya ye zawangizhi ujin wo be wuncin'y aga de sinsantu.



Surah 2:222,They ask thee concerning women´s courses. Say: They are a hurt and a pollution: So keep away from women in their courses and do not approach them until they are clean. But when they have purified themselves ye may approach them in any manner time or place ordained for you by Allah. For Allah loves those who turn to Him constantly and He loves those who keep themselves pure and clean.,A mae gbin wyo gan eti hukunci egya al'aada (yan ynzagizhio) .Gan gan:"Egun uyo.Eboacino yea kpe ya beayin mini lokaci hailao ye mae ga tso ba'a (ebo bakeo) ma sai aga nuwan lili fu. Aga bea nuwan lili fu to eye ba 'a dagan eko na Soko jin ye umumi be yin nae. Akika Sokoe wa zanazhie jin tuba na umae wa za nazhie ta minia dzu na.



Surah 2:223,Your wives are as a tilth unto you; so approach your tilth when or how ye will; but do some good act for your souls beforehand; and fear Allah. And know that ye are to meet Him (in the Hereafter) and give (these) good tidings to those who believe.,Yinmi yezhi lati a yio ya yeo ebo acin'o eda gandan lati yebo dagan eko nagae ba ye na.Ye mae la alherie shidzoeya etitacin yetso ye mae sundan Soko ye mae kpe'wo ke yea'ada gun be 'Uyin na. Wyomao ya muminizhi bushara.



Surah 2:224,And make not Allah´s (name) an excuse in your oaths against doing good or acting rightly or making peace between persons; for Allah is One Who heareth and knoweth all things.,Ye mae ga la (SUNNA) Soko a zhe eka (na yeala kara zunubi ta) yakutizhiyezhi ma ebo ye'la etun gurue lugwa. Ye mae sundan Soko ye mae jin gyara tsakani zawangi-zhio. Soko ma Etsu nae wo yandondo na uyio Etsu uyio na kpe yandondo ye na.



Surah 2:225,Allah will not call you to account for thoughtlessness in your oaths but for the intention in your hearts; and He is Oft-forgiving Most Forbearing.,Soko a wan ye be kuti nazhi yezhi yan eti kpere na'a amma'ade wyun'awan ye be yanna yangba yezhi ga ce wo'u na. Soko ma Etsu hakuri uyio.



Surah 2:226,For those who take an oath for abstention from their wives a waiting for four months is ordained; if then they return Allah is Oft-forgiving Most Merciful.,zanazhie zhi kutiyan (ILA'I) ke a yea keba be yinmiazhi yin'a na (eti bayibao na) a'pata ya' a da etswa gunni. Agabe dazhin zuma (eba yin mi'a zhi) akika Soko Etsu gafara uyio.



Surah 2:227,But if their intention is firm for divorce Allah heareth and knoweth all things.,Ama gabea niyan yawo la gboka to akika Soko Etsu nae wo na uyio Etsu na kpe yandondo na uyio.



Surah 2:228,Divorced women shall wait concerning themselves for three monthly periods. Nor is it lawful for them to hide what Allah Hath created in their wombs if they have faith in Allah and the Last Day. And their husbands have the better right to take them back in that period if they wish for reconciliation. And women shall have rights similar to the rights against them according to what is equitable; but men have a degree (of advantage) over them. And Allah is Exalted in Power Wise.,Yinzagi nazhi yawozhiala na a fedun etapa ya eti tacin atso yan lili guta. Uma jin halali ya aa na aso yan-na Soko jin alita'u dan mini ewan'zhio na'a. Agaa fe-gan a imani jin be efo zobae na. Eba yawozhi ma aga wun hakkiyan lilazhin'o eti edunfe yawo bo dan mini lokaci iddabo abeke agae wa gyara edunfeabo na. Yinzagizhi ma de hakki (ta eti ebazhio) iri hakki na ebazhi de ta etia bo na eti gborodao. Bagizhi ma de daraja ndoci (yan dzoshi) ta etia bo.Sokoma Etsuzankpe uyio Etsu hikima uyio.



Surah 2:229,A divorce is only permissible twice: after that the parties should either hold Together on equitable terms or separate with kindness. It is not lawful for you (Men) to take back any of your gifts (from your wives) except when both parties fear that they would be unable to keep the limits ordained by Allah. If ye (judges) do indeed fear that they would be unable to keep the limits ordained by Allah there is no blame on either of them if she give something for her freedom. These are the limits ordained by Allah; so do not transgress them if any do transgress the limits ordained by Allah such persons wrong (Themselves as well as others).,Yawo la (natsode gyara na) gubauyio. Ebo acin'o yea egwasun yinmiezhi be gaskiyae ko ma yeajin kpamu be boloboloeu majin halali na yea gwo yandondo mini yan nazhi ye la'aya'na boa. Sai dai kamina eba be yinmiy gae sundan ke aya'a tswa hukunci Soko zhi woa na to le'fi danbo ya' a za guba'ba yan yanna yinmi ga'ala cia sa eti tacin'u ke hukunci yawo lugwa na'a wuncinzhi iyaka Soko zhi ga dan'onao. zandodo na gae gbin iyaka Soko tu na za wuncinzhi ga yi azwalumi zhio.



Surah 2:230,So if a husband divorces his wife (irrevocably) He cannot after that re-marry her until after she has married another husband and He has divorced her. In that case there is no blame on either of them if they re-unite provided they feel that they can keep the limits ordained by Allah. Such are the limits ordained by Allah which He makes plain to those who understand.,Gancin uga beu ya (yan taci). To ujin halali yau bea baci wuncin boa sai de uga yawo pa cia keba be eba ndoci na jin yan payin'ana. Gancin (eba yan baci) uga be'u ya le'fi danboya'a za guba ba (eba yan payin be yinmi payin'y) na'a dazhin betsun dozhi be na'a aga kpe wo ke a tswa hukunci Soko zhi na. wuncinzhi iyaka Soko zhi gadan'o nao na wyun'e jin bayani ya za nazhi ga de kpikpe na.



Surah 2:23,When ye divorce women and they fulfil the term of their (´Iddat) either take them back on equitable terms or set them free on equitable terms; but do not take them back to injure them (or) to take undue advantage; if any one does that; He wrongs his own soul. Do not treat Allah´s Signs as a jest but solemnly rehearse Allah´s favours on you and the fact that He sent down to you the Book and Wisdom for your instruction. And fear Allah and know that Allah is well acquainted with all things.,Ye ma ga bea yinzagizhi ya har aci bea idda'a jin zo sai ye'la- gwaesun'a be alheriy ko ma ye' la'jin kpamu be alheri. Ye mae ga kan'a zhizhi eti binakun'o ma. Zandondo na ga jin' acin na akika wyum'a etitaci'u jin gun. Ye mae ga la aya Soko (yawo) zhi edzo ma. Ye mae pa ni'ima Soko na ta eti yebo na. Ye mae pa litafi (Alkuranu) na U cin be yaye na to hukunci hukunci hikimazhi. wyun'e jin'e wa'azi be'uyin ye mae sundan Soko ye mae kpe wo ke de Soko yibe kpikpe yandodoe na.



Surah 2:231,When ye divorce women and they fulfil the term of their (´Iddat) either take them back on equitable terms or set them free on equitable terms; but do not take them back to injure them (or) to take undue advantage; if any one does that; He wrongs his own soul. Do not treat Allah´s Signs as a jest but solemnly rehearse Allah´s favours on you and the fact that He sent down to you the Book and Wisdom for your instruction. And fear Allah and know that Allah is well acquainted with all things.,Ye ma ga bea yinzagizhi ya har aci bea idda'a jin zo sai ye'la- gwaesun'a be alheriy ko ma ye' la'jin kpamu be alheri. Ye mae ga kan'a zhizhi eti binakun'o ma. Zandondo na ga jin' acin na akika wyum'a etitaci'u jin gun. Ye mae ga la aya Soko (yawo) zhi edzo ma. Ye mae pa ni'ima Soko na ta eti yebo na. Ye mae pa litafi (Alkuranu) na U cin be yaye na to hukunci hukunci hikimazhi. wyun'e jin'e wa'azi be'uyin ye mae sundan Soko ye mae kpe wo ke de Soko yibe kpikpe yandodoe na.



Surah 2:23,When ye divorce women and they fulfil the term of their (´Iddat) do not prevent them from marrying their (former) husbands if they mutually agree on equitable terms. This instruction is for all amongst you who believe in Allah and the Last Day. That is (the course Making for) most virtue and purity amongst you and Allah knows and ye know not.,Ye ma ga bea yinzagizhi ya har aci bea idda'azhi jin zo ye (wali yan azhi) ega kan'a yawo yin pa be eba'a (yan payin) zhi'y ma aga yeda jin tsakaniabo be dozhi eti edunfe wangio na. Wuncin Soko ela'ulajin wa'azi ya za na ga imani jin be sokoena uma'ajin be efo zobae na. Wuncin (nayeajin na) uga la edzuta be liliy ya ye gan'o Soko mayi be kpikpe ye ma kpea.



Surah 2:233,The mothers shall give such to their offspring for two whole years if the father desires to complete the term. But he shall bear the cost of their food and clothing on equitable terms. No soul shall have a burden laid on it greater than it can bear. No mother shall be Treated unfairly on account of her child. Nor father on account of his child an heir shall be chargeable in the same way. If they both decide on weaning by mutual consent and after due consultation there is no blame on them. If ye decide on a foster-mother for your offspring there is no blame on you provided ye pay (the mother) what ye offered on equitable terms. But fear Allah and know that Allah sees well what ye do.,Yan manci yin zagizhi aya egiazhi ebe aye har yan eya guba gungunci ya za na gae wa gan wyun'u la eyau gunmi na. Gancin gigiazhi to tu fuwa'azhi uta eti nda na'a magi ya nao eti eko gboro. E'la kpaka ta rayia sai yanna uga' ajin wo na. Ajin Nna'gun ebo egiu boa acin ma ajin Baba gun ebo egiu boa acin ga ga'u yi eti egun-gici bo. Ama ga bea kpa gan aga egi wa'mi ebeo eti yardajin'o. Tsakaniabo zaguba'ba ganni be shawarae le'fi danbo ya' aa (eti wuncin boa) ye ma ga wa gan yea wa zandoci na'aya egiyezhi ebe ye ya ye na le'fi danboa yega ewo etun'a la'aya'a eti adalin-ciona'. Ye mae sundan Soko ye mae kpe'wo ke Soko'e cin ye lebe iri etun nazhi ye lo na.



Surah 2:234,If any of you die and leave widows behind they shall wait concerning themselves four months and ten days: When they have fulfilled their term there is no blame on you if they dispose of themselves in a just and reasonable manner. And Allah is well acquainted with what ye do.,za nazhi ma ajaliazhi ga'ajin mini yebo ajin'a ya yinmizhi zhi zumao na yinzagi wuncinzhi a fedun ekpo be etitacin'a yin yan Etswa gunni be efo guwoe. Gancin aga beaidda'azhi jin zo le'fi danbo ya ye yea mini etun nazhi a gada lo be etitacin' ayin eti eko gboro na a Sokoma uyi be labari Etun nazhi ye gae lo na.



Surah 2:235,There is no blame on you if ye make an offer of betrothal or hold it in your hearts. Allah knows that ye cherish them in your hearts: But do not make a secret contract with them except in terms Honourable nor resolve on the tie of marriage till the term prescribed is fulfilled. And know that Allah Knoweth what is in your hearts and take heed of Him; and know that Allah is Oft-forgiving Most Forbearing.,Le'fi ma danbo ya ye yea mini yan na ye ga la ta gwa wu yan wiwa yan yinmizhi na'a ko ma nazhi ye ga so dan yangban yezhio naa. Soko kpe ke ye yea be'u tun'ye ya'a na ammaa ega jin dozhi alkawali (lokaci iddae) swiswoci ma saide ye ga'a gangan ye' gan wangi. Ye mae ga ta kpankoro yawo jin (dan iddao ma) har sai kamina idda gaazo na. Ye mae kpe'wo ke Soko kpe yannazhi fi yangban ye bo na ebo acin'o etswa'u. Ye mae kpe'wo ke Soko Etsu gafara uyio Etsu hakuri ma uyio na.



Surah 2:23,There is no blame on you if ye divorce women before consummation or the fixation of their dower; but bestow on them (A suitable gift) the wealthy according to his means and the poor according to his means;- A gift of a reasonable amount is due from those who wish to do the right thing.,Le'fi madanbo ya ye yea ye gabe ya yinmizhi alali ma ye la la'gwa to'a na'yin'a yema la'aba sadaki ya'a na'a yin'a. Yede twa'arya ya'be eyan emawozhiy bagwo deci ujin gwargwadotalakao tso ma ujin gwargwado eryatwa uyio na yi wangi na umayi ti'ile ta eti za nazhi gae lo'tun wangi nao.



Surah 2:237,And if ye divorce them before consummation but after the fixation of a dower for them then the half of the dower (Is due to them) unless they remit it or (the man´s half) is remitted by him in whose hands is the marriage tie; and the remission (of the man´s half) is the nearest to righteousness. And do not forget Liberality between yourselves. For Allah sees well all that ye do.,Ye ma ga bea ya shidzo kafi ye' lagwae tua na alali ma yea sadaki ba ya'a le'ani to yea ganfi sadaki na ye bana la'a ya'a sai de atso ga gan gan a ya'u jin sauki. Ko ma zana wun egan yawo pa na gan wyun'ajin sauki. Sauki na ma ye 'jin na uga tsoba dansun Soko gan'o ye mae ga ba alherizhi tan tsakaniebo be dozhiy ma. Akika Sokoe cin'e le be iri etun nazhi ye'lo kpata na.



Surah 2:238,Guard strictly your (habit of) prayers especially the Middle Prayer; and stand before Allah in a devout (frame of mind).,Ye mae fe tswa swallazhi to salla yan tatacin ye mae laekue gikini be ekpya dae baenio ya Soko.



Surah 2:239,If ye fear (an enemy) pray on foot or riding (as may be most convenient) but when ye are in security celebrate Allah´s praises in the manner He has taught you which ye knew not (before).,Ye ma gae be sundan (ejin swalla kendoe haliga yi na) ejin gi gbaro ko ma eti yan tucizhio etun Soko yeyemae pa U kendoe Ula yannazhi yekpeana wu ye na.



Surah 2:239,If ye fear (an enemy) pray on foot or riding (as may be most convenient) but when ye are in security celebrate Allah´s praises in the manner He has taught you which ye knew not (before).,Ye ma gae be sundan (ejin swalla kendoe haliga yi na) ejin gi gbaro ko ma eti yan tucizhio etun Soko yeyemae pa U kendoe Ula yannazhi yekpeana wu ye na.



Surah 2:240,Those of you who die and leave widows should bequeath for their widows a year´s maintenance and residence; but if they leave (The residence) there is no blame on you for what they do with themselves provided it is reasonable. And Allah is Exalted in Power Wise.,za nazhi gabea jin ajali mini yebo na alalima a yi be yinmizhi naa ya zhi zunmao na ajin wasiyya ya yinmiazhi yan eyan emawo yan edunfe eya nini ama aga tinya ma ama ga bea tinya le'fi danbo ya ye yea dan mini etu nazhi agada lo yan'a nayi wangi na'a Soko ma Etsu zankpe uyio Etsu hikima uyio.



Surah 2:24,For divorced women Maintenance (should be provided) on a reasonable (scale). This is a duty on the righteous.,Yinzagi nazhi ma aga ya na ayibe eryatwa yan eyan emawozhi eti bolobolo. Nana ma hakki uyio ta eti za nazhi gae sundan Sokona.



Surah 2:242,Thus doth Allah Make clear His Signs to you: In order that ye may understand.,Acinga ga Soko jin bayani ayauzhi ya ye yeoujin wo be wuncin'yye ga'afe eza ankali zhi.



Surah 2:243,Didst thou not Turn by vision to those who abandoned their homes though they were thousands (In number) for fear of death Allah said to them: "Die": Then He restored them to life. For Allah is full of bounty to mankind but Most of them are ungrateful.,Ngba wyo le yea lo eba za nazhi tinya dagan emiazhio amayi za kpau tsun'u'tsun eti dansun ajalio na'a Sokoci gan'a gan:"kpatae yea tsu" Uci kezhea dan rayi be. Akika Soko Etsu falala uyio taeti zawangizhioamma' ade ekundondo zawangizhi ejin yeboa.



Surah 2:244,Then fight in the cause of Allah and know that Allah Heareth and knoweth all things.,Ye mae gun kun ta eti ekpa Soko yemae kpe'wo ke Soko Etsu uyio nae wo na Etsu uyio na kpe yandondo ye na.



Surah 2:245,Who is he that will loan to Allah a beautiful loan which Allah will double unto his credit and multiply many times It is Allah that giveth (you) Want or plenty and to Him shall be your return.,Zi iga la eyan a man Soko'o yanma natso mayi wangi nao ebo Soko ula wun'u kpeuba'u yau ekpeba kpeba nazhi dokun nao Akika Soko ajin uya gwa-ba (ya zandochizhi) uma'ajin uya'gwa (ya zandocizhi) ebau gabo ma a kuye zheban lo.



Surah 2:246,Hast thou not Turned thy vision to the Chiefs of the Children of Israel after (the time of) Moses they said to a prophet (That was) among them: "Appoint for us a king that we May fight in the cause of Allah." He said: "Is it not possible if ye were commanded to fight that that ye will not fight" They said: "How could we refuse to fight in the cause of Allah seeing that we were turned out of our homes and our families" but when they were commanded to fight they turned back except a small band among them. But Allah Has full knowledge of those who do wrong.,Kashi wyo cinle lo eba zako izhe (ndocizhi) mini Banu Israilazhio nazhiy be zunma yan Musao naa. Lokaci na agan ya Annbia ndoci na;" Li etsu ya yi yia gunkun ta eti ekpa Soko" Uci gan; Ngba ye cinle lo ke ka'aga ekun jin wajibi ya ye gan ye'gun ye yea gun'a na'a yin'a. Aci gan: ki' dan be yi yi'o na'a kan yi ekun'yn gun ta eti ekpa Soko nao alali ma ayi nyandzun tinya emiyizhio to egiyizhi kami na a bea ekun gun jin wajibi ta eti abo na a zumz zheta  saide za de'gi miniabo. Soko mayi be kpikpe yan yanna azwalumizhi ejin na.



Surah 2:247,Their Prophet said to them: "Allah hath appointed Talut as king over you." They said: "How can he exercise authority over us when we are better fitted than he to exercise authority and he is not even gifted with wealth in abundance" He said: "Allah hath Chosen him above you and hath gifted him abundantly with knowledge and bodily prowess: Allah Granteth His authority to whom He pleaseth. Allah careth for all and He knoweth all things.",Annabi'a ci gan'a gan: Akika Sokoa Dalutu li ula'ufe Etsu'u ya ye Aci gan: "ke wun'a dada ci gi tsu ta eti yi bo nao alali ma yi ga gwoyin gan na'a gi' tsu naoama yau bagwo yan arzikia na'a yin'o. U ci gan: "Akika ma Soko'u li ta eti yebo uma beu bagwo mini ilimio to nakan kpace u bo. Soko ma'ajin ula mulki'u wyun'a ya za na ga bau na. Soko ma Etsu bagwo uyio Etsu kpikpe uyio.



Surah 2:248,And (further) their Prophet said to them: "A Sign of his authority is that there shall come to you the Ark of the covenant with (an assurance) therein of security from your Lord and the relics left by the family of Moses and the family of Aaron carried by angels. In this is a symbol for you if ye indeed have faith.",Annabia cia gan'a gan: Akika alama yan mulki'u wyun'abe ya'a be kpati ndociy mini' ubo yan na'ashi yangbanta na dando dagan eba Tsoci ye bo to kaya nazhi ke dagan egwa za' mi Musa to za'mi Harunazhio na. Malaikazhi ma'a la wyun'o. Akika mini wuncin'o egwa wu danbo ya ye (ke Soko tsa li Daluta etsu ona) wun'ayi muminizhi ye yio na.



Surah 2:249,When Talut set forth with the armies he said: "Allah will test you at the stream: if any drinks of its water He goes not with my army: Only those who taste not of it go with me: A mere sip out of the hand is excused." but they all drank of it except a few. When they crossed the river- He and the faithful ones with him- they said: "This day We cannot cope with Goliath and his forces." but those who were convinced that they must meet Allah said: "How oft by Allah´s will Hath a small force vanquished a big one Allah is with those who steadfastly persevere.",Kamina Dalutu bea dzun tinya be ekungunci'uzhi'na ugan: "Akika Sokoa maye cinle be edu nuwan ndoci zandondo na ga to nuwan fin miniubo na za wuncin dan mini zabamizhi boa za na ma la'u to misun wyun'a na Akika zawuncin dan mini mibo sai de za na ga to gwako nini be egwauyin na. Kun'dondoa ci da to'u fin (kendoe ba'a na) sai de za degi miniabo. Kamina (Dalutu) bea patu gan-ni be za na zhia imani jin gan-ni beu yin na (za nazhitwo nuwan fin;ana) ci gan: Nyin na yi de kagbo ndondo nayi ga zheye ka Dalutu be ekun gunci'uzhi-na;a zanazhia gaskiya ya ke ada gun be Sokoena cigan: "Gukin gukin'o jama'a nazhi yi degi na e laade zankpe ta eti jama'a nazhi dokun na be izini Soko yin'o. Soko ma wyun'ajin udanbe hakuri jincizhiy.



Surah 2:250,When they advanced to meet Goliath and his forces they prayed: "Our Lord! Pour out constancy on us and make our steps firm: Help us against those that reject faith.",Kamina adzun fi jaluta be ekun gunciuzhi'-na aci gan: Ya wyoe Tsociyan yi! "Du'le hakuri fi yi naka'o wyo mao la bici kimpayizhio gboka wyo mao ya yi nasara ta eti jama'ayan kafirizhio.



Surah 2:251,By Allah´s will they routed them; and David slew Goliath; and Allah gave him power and wisdom and taught him whatever (else) He willed. And did not Allah Check one set of people by means of another the earth would indeed be full of mischief: But Allah is full of bounty to all the worlds.,Acia rukpea be izini Sokoe Dawuda cia Jalutu wu Soko cia mulki to hikima la'a yau uci wu'u ilimi yan nazhi wyun'e wa na kagan ujin ebo gwakan Soko boa na wyun'e la sashi zazhi kangwa ya sashi na'a da kin ga'ajin lalace. Amma' ade Soko Etsu falala uyio ta eti alitzhi kpatao.





Surah 2:252,These are the Signs of Allah: we rehearse them to thee in truth: verily Thou art one of the messengers.,Wucinzhi kpata ayazhi ayio yan Soko. Nae gba yawyoe be gaskiyae naakika ma wyo yea fe dan mini tuci zhio.



Surah 2:253,Those messengers We endowed with gifts some above others: To one of them Allah spoke; others He raised to degrees (of honour); to Jesus the son of Mary We gave clear (Signs) and strengthened him with the holy spirit. If Allah had so willed succeeding generations would not have fought among each other after clear (Signs) had come to them but they (chose) to wrangle some believing and others rejecting. If Allah had so willed they would not have fought each other; but Allah Fulfilleth His plan.,Tuci wuncinzhi yi yia daraja la'aya sashiazhi ta eti sashio ade dan miniabo na Soko gangan bayin na Uma'a sashiazhi la'atu be darajazhi yima' hujjazhi la'aya Isa egi Maryama yici kezhe' u ya kagbo be Ruhiy na yi lilici na. Uma'aba Soko ba da za nazhi be gba'azuma na'agun kun'a baci na hujjazhi nazhia tula na be ya'a ni na'a amma'ade a'ce dozhi leba ebo acin'o ade dan miniabo za nazhia imani jin na amade dan miniabo nazhia jin kafirinci na. Da wun'a ba Soko ba agun dozhi kun'a amma' ade Soko'ajin ujin yan na ga bau na.



Surah 2:254,O ye who believe! Spend out of (the bounties) We have provided for you before the Day comes when no bargaining (Will avail) nor friendship nor intercession. Those who reject Faith they are the wrong-doers.,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na ewu dukiyayezhi mini nazhi yila ya ye arziki nao tun shidzo kafi Efo' ube na efo na e cewo boa na eyada madanboa na gwatan ndondoma' danboa na. Akika kafirizhi agayi azwalumizhio.



Surah 2:255,Allah! There is no god but He-the Living the Self-subsisting Eternal. No slumber can seize Him nor sleep. His are all things in the heavens and on earth. Who is there can intercede in His presence except as He permitteth He knoweth what (appeareth to His creatures as) before or after or behind them. Nor shall they compass aught of His knowledge except as He willeth. His Throne doth extend over the heavens and the earth and He feeleth no fatigue in guarding and preserving them for He is the Most High the Supreme (in glory).,Soko ade tsoci ndocia sai wyin'y. Etsu rayi Etsu na' akunke ya' ti ' u be yandondoe na igbe ta wun'e la wyun'a to elele ma wune la wyun'a wyun ga wun yan na fi samazhi to yan na fi kinbo nao ziy-kun' acin' u tangwa 'ugi nko' ubo sai de be iziniuyin Uyi be kpikpe yan nazhi dan yegboroabo na to nazhi dan zuma' abo na. Ama ma yandondo kezhe mini ilimiu boa sai natso ga ba;u na. Esa yan mulki'u wun'a ma samazhi to kin yin gwoba kangia be tswitswa'a yin ulu kpin ndondo fi wyun'a wyun ga mayi Etsu na latu (ta eti yandondo nao) Etsu nayi cinwan ci na.



Surah 2:256,Let there be no compulsion in religion: Truth stands out clear from Error: whoever rejects evil and believes in Allah hath grasped the most trustworthy hand-hold that never breaks. And Allah heareth and knoweth all things.,Ti;ile bo ko kpaka bo udan mini jin jin adini boa (ya zana la'agwo musuluncia na'a) Akika bawu wun'a tula kperi be egbiny ebo acin'o zandondo na ga 'kafirici jinbe Dagutuy na (zanae jin zazhi umurni be wunwun zandoci ke Soko lugwa na) u cia imani jin be Sokoe na akika za wuncin'a egwa la'asun egban na gboka sarauyin nana ma'adza ya'a na Soko ma Etsu nae wo yandondo na uyio Etsu nade kpikpe yandondo na uyio



Surah 2:257,Allah is the Protector of those who have faith: from the depths of darkness He will lead them forth into light. Of those who reject faith the patrons are the evil ones: from light they will lead them forth into the depths of darkness. They will be companions of the fire to dwell therein (For ever),Soko ga yi Ndakata yan za nazhia imani jin nao wyun'e kuadzun tinya dagan bazhiko zhio lo haske za nazhi ma'ajin kafirinci na Ndakata'azhi gayi Dagutuo ajin afe kuatinya dagan haskeo lo bazhikozhi. Za wuncinzhi ga yi egi mi'na zhio bagabo a fi tutunyin'o.



Surah 2:258,Hast thou not Turned thy vision to one who disputed with Abraham About his Lord because Allah had granted him power Abraham said: "My Lord is He Who Giveth life and death." He said: "I give life and death". Said Abraham: "But it is Allah that causeth the sun to rise from the east: Do thou then cause him to rise from the West." Thus was he confounded who (in arrogance) rejected faith. Nor doth Allah Give guidance to a people unjust.,Ngba wyu le ye eba za na gbomi be Ibrahimae dan mini alamari Tsocioubo ebo mulki na Soko la'ayau na'a lokaci na Ibrahima gan: "Tsoci mi gae dan eyan rayio wyu ga mae wu rayio Ugan: "Tomi tsoe dan yan rayi mi mae wu rayi. "Ibrahima gan: "To akika Sokoe elaigidi tinya dagan eyi la'azhin'o ebo acin'o wyotso'o la wun'o tin'oya dagan eyi lo'zun'o acia za na'ajin kafirinci na la'agizhi dan zunyesun'o. Soko mae la jama'ayan azwalumizhi ke eoa.



Surah 2:259,Or (take) the similitude of one who passed by a hamlet all in ruins to its roofs. He said: "Oh! how shall Allah bring it (ever) to life after (this) its death" but Allah caused him to die for a hundred years then raised him up (again). He said: "How long didst thou tarry (thus)" He said: (Perhaps) a day or part of a day." He said: "Nay thou hast tarried thus a hundred years; but look at thy food and thy drink; they show no signs of age; and look at thy donkey: And that We may make of thee a sign unto the people Look further at the bones how We bring them together and clothe them with flesh." When this was shown clearly to him he said: "I know that Allah hath power over all things.",Koma ke za na -- gan alkarya ndocio na alalima wun' azhe wasa ta eti eyanko'uzhio uci gan: ke Soko zhezhe ci dan kin nana rayi baci tsutsu'ubo nao Sokocia wuntso wu har yan eya shitsun zuma wuncin'o uci'u la'a nakin be rayiy Uci gbin' ugan gan: "Ke efo jin wyoe yiyinao. Ugan: mi fe foe ni ko ma sashi yan efo (nini). Ugan: A'a wyo fe eya shittsun'ani.Cin le lo eba yangici wyoe to eyan finci wyoe ade na zhegba miniabo na'a wyo mao cin'oleolo eba tyatyagi wyoe ebo ma yi la wyo yolaofe aya ndociy ya zawangizhi. Wyo mao cin-oleolo eba tsukunzhi kendoe yie san'a san na yicie kezhe la tufuwa yan nakan kpea na. Gancin kamina alamari bea tula yau na ugan: mi kpe ke Soko de kagbo ta eti yandondo na.



Surah 2:260,When Abraham said: "Show me Lord how You will raise the dead " He replied: "Have you no faith" He said "Yes but just to reassure my heart." Allah said "Take four birds draw them to you and cut their bodies to pieces. Scatter them over the mountain-tops then call them back. They will come swiftly to you. Know that Allah is Mighty Wise.",To lokaci na Ibrahima gan gan: Tsoci! La' wu mi kendoe wyoe la rayi dan eyan tsutsucizhi na. Ugan: kashi wyo ya gaskiya ya'a Ugan: "Na'am! Ebo de yangban mi yiu be shishi "Ugan: "To a'gwasun elugi gunni wyo la eyeazhi pan'ozhin eba wyoe wyo cio la'aozun wyo cio la kasan' azhio gan'o kpe patizhio. Ganncin wyo cio yia atsoa fe be eba wyoe be ciy. wyo mao kpeo wo kede akika Soko Etsu zankpe uyio Etsu hikima uyio na.



Surah 2:261,The parable of those who spend their substance in the way of Allah is that of a grain of corn: it groweth seven ears and each ear Hath a hundred grains. Allah giveth manifold increase to whom He pleaseth: And Allah careth for all and He knoweth all things.,Kotonci yan za nazhie wu dukiya'azhi fi eko Soko na uyi ke kotonci yan eyisunsun na'ayin egwa gutwaba na mini egwa ndondo yangici sunsun shitsun fi bo. Soko ma'ajin Ukpe' u badozhi ya za na ga ba'u na Sokoma Etsu bagwo uyio Etsu kpikpe uyio.



Surah 2:262,Those who spend their substance in the cause of Allah and follow not up their gifts with reminders of their generosity or with injury-for them their reward is with their Lord: on them shall be no fear nor shall they grieve.,Za nazhie wu dukiya'azhi fi eko Soko na gancin ma e'la'zhisa be egun'y a gba yan na a wuna zuma'a na ayibe la'ada'yin dan eba Soko dansun ndondo ma'adan bea yin'a ama'a nyin yangban ndodoa.



Surah 2:264,O ye who believe! cancel not your charity by reminders of your generosity or by injury- like those who spend their substance to be seen of men but believe neither in Allah nor in the Last Day. They are in parable like a hard barren rock on which is a little soil: on it falls heavy rain which leaves it (Just) a bare stone. They will be able to do nothing with aught they have earned. And Allah guideth not those who reject faith.,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na! Ega nyin swadaka yezhi ya be ezhisae be egun'y ma ke za nae wu dukiya ebo eye zawangizhio na uma ya gaskiya be Sokoe be efo zoba yin' a na. kotoci'u uyi ke kotonciyan takunko na jikanna kpe eti ubo na eleko cie du kpe u ucia la'azhe bolwoe. Ade anfani ndondo yan woce na'ace na'a Sokomae la bawu aya jama'a nazhi ejin kafirinci na'a.



Surah 2:265,And the likeness of those who spend their substance seeking to please Allah and to strengthen their souls is as a garden high and fertile: heavy rain falls on it but makes it yield a double increase of harvest and if it receives not Heavy rain light moisture sufficeth it. Allah seeth well whatever ye do.,Kotonci ma yan za nazhie wu dukya'azhi ebo wiwayan yardajin yan Soko na be kagbo yan yangban' atsozhi (eba imanio na) uyi ke kotonci yan batako ndoci na ta eti patio na eleko (yan albarka) cia du kpeu na. Uci nyin anfani latizhi tinya-kpeba dozhi guba tobo' otso eleko du fi wun'a ka elekpa nae cin na (wun'a kun'uke) Soko mae cin yele be iri etun nazhi ye' lo na.





Surah 2:265,And the likeness of those who spend their substance seeking to please Allah and to strengthen their souls is as a garden high and fertile: heavy rain falls on it but makes it yield a double increase of harvest and if it receives not Heavy rain light moisture sufficeth it. Allah seeth well whatever ye do.,Kotonci ma yan za nazhie wu dukya'azhi ebo wiwayan yardajin yan Soko na be kagbo yan yangban' atsozhi (eba imanio na) uyi ke kotonci yan batako ndoci na ta eti patio na eleko (yan albarka) cia du kpeu na. Uci nyin anfani latizhi tinya-kpeba dozhi guba tobo' otso eleko du fi wun'a ka elekpa nae cin na (wun'a kun'uke) Soko mae cin yele be iri etun nazhi ye' lo na.



Surah 2:266,Does any of you wish that he should have a garden with date-palms and vines and streams flowing underneath and all kinds of fruit while he is stricken with old age and his children are not strong (enough to look after themselves)- that it should be caught in a whirlwind with fire therein and be burnt up Thus doth Allah make clear to you (His) Signs; that ye may consider.,Kashi eza dan mini yebo nae wa gan wyun'u yi bebatako yan donbinazhi to yinabizhi na manuwanzhie je fi tako ubo na yangici sunsun iri ndondo ma' ashe u wyuntso ci bea kuku umayi be zuriyazhi nazhi la'agboka na gancin efe ko ndoci na enafinin yin'ubo na cibea lati din na. (Ngba ade za na awa acin na). Acinga ga Sokoe jin bayani yan ayauzhi ya ye yeo ujin wo be wuncin'y ye ga fe zanazhia kpa ye na.



Surah 2:267,O ye who believe! Give of the good things which ye have (honourably) earned and of the fruits of the earth which We have produced for you and do not even aim at getting anything which is bad in order that out of it ye may give away something when ye yourselves would not receive it except with closed eyes. And know that Allah is Free of all wants and worthy of all praise.,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na! Efe wu mini dukiya wangiyezhio nazhi ye cewoa na to mini yan nazhi yi la tinya ya ye dagan kinbo na ye mae ga kpa lulo etun dede mini ubo ma ye mae ga fe wu yanna ka aga yaye yea gwo'a na ma ko na kaye ga gwo ye ga eye findanna ma. Yemae kpe' wo kede Soko Etsu wadata uyio Etsu yebo ma uyio na.



Surah 2:268,The Evil one threatens you with poverty and bids you to conduct unseemly. Allah promiseth you His forgiveness and bounties. And Allah careth for all and He knoweth all things.,She'tan wyin'ejin ye alkawali yaji jin umae jinye umurni be lulo yan etun alfashae. Soko mae jin ye alkawali yan etun gafara be falalae dagan eba' ubo. Sokoma Etsu bagwo uyio Etsu kpikpe uyio.



Surah 2:269,He granteth wisdom to whom He pleaseth; and he to whom wisdom is granted receiveth indeed a benefit overflowing; but none will grasp the Message but men of understanding.,Wyun' ela hikima (fahimta gaskiya) a twarya ya za na ga ba una zandondo na ma aga hikima la'aya na akika aza wuncin ya alherina dokun na. A made za na' akpaye na'a sai de za nazhi gayi eza hankalizhi na.



Surah 2:270,And whatever ye spend in charity or devotion be sure Allah knows it all. But the wrong-doers have no helpers.,Yandondo na ye ga wu mini dukiyaezhio na (ba na wun'agbagba da kan na) koma emi yan alkawali ndoci na ye ga shena akika Soko yi be kpikpeu yin. Azwalumizhi ma'ade zanazhia jin'ataimako naa.



Surah 2:271,If ye disclose (acts of) charity even so it is well but if ye conceal them and make them reach those (really) in need that is best for you: It will remove from you some of your (stains of) evil. And Allah is well acquainted with what ye do.,Ye ga swadakazhi la'atula to ugye sarauyin yema ga'uswo ye cia la'aya talakazhi wucintso de alheri gan yaye. Soko ma ga ndoncizhi mini zunubi yezhio fin ya. Soko ma yi be kpikpe etun nazhi ye'lo na.



Surah 2:272,It is not required of thee (O Messenger) to set them on the right path but Allah sets on the right path whom He pleaseth. Whatever of good ye give benefits your own souls and ye shall only do so seeking the "Face" of Allah. Whatever good ye give shall be rendered back to you and ye shall not Be dealt with unjustly.,Eko ke'a udan egwa wyoboa amma'ade Soko ajin ula za na ga bau na ake eko. Yandondo na ma ye ga wu yan alheri na eti tacin yetso ye wu yao yandondo na ma ye ga wuna sai ebo wiwa yan yarda Soko bo ya wuo. Yandondo na ye ga wu mini alherio na Soko ga la'adau gunmi ya ye ama' ajin ye zwaluncia.



Surah 2:273,(Charity is) for those in need who in Allah´s cause are restricted (from travel) and cannot move about in the land seeking (For trade or work): the ignorant man thinks because of their modesty that they are free from want. Thou shalt know them by their (Unfailing) mark: They beg not importunately from all the sundry. And whatever of good ye give be assured Allah knoweth it well.,(Efe' wu dukiya) ya talakazhi nazhia eyanzhi la'akan'a ebo ezan na'eda yankokari ta eti ekpa Sokona ade kagbo na'alo bandondo wo be na'a za na kpea na ga le'aye wyun' aye gan ko eyandecizhio ebo minia nae wan nao. Wyoa kpeaye be ala'amazhiy e'jin zawangizhi bara wawuya yin'a yandondo na ye ga wu mini alherio na akika Soko yi be kpikpe uyin.



Surah 2:274,Those who (in charity) spend of their goods by night and by day in secret and in public have their reward with their Lord: on them shall be no fear nor shall they grieve.,Za nazhie wu dukiya' azhi (fi eko Soko) dan yeshio to igidi na to swiswoci to gbangba na to a yi be la'ada' ayin dan eba Tsociabo dansun ndondo ma'adan beayin'a nyangban nyin ndondo ma'adan bea yin'a.



Surah 2:275,Those who devour usury will not stand except as stand one whom the Evil one by his touch Hath driven to madness. That is because they say: "Trade is like usury" but Allah hath permitted trade and forbidden usury. Those who after receiving direction from their Lord desist shall be pardoned for the past; their case is for Allah (to judge); but those who repeat (The offence) are companions of the Fire: They will abide therein (for ever).,Za nazhie gi ewo riba na (yan naabe ta eti lisafio na) a nakin efo alkiyami boa sai de kendoe zana efe shetanda zhe nakan cia togwa na kendoe wyun' e nakin nana. Wuncin mayi ebo na atsoe gan gan: "akika woce ke riba na uyio. Sokoma' awoce la'azhe halali uma'ariba la'azhe haramu. "Ebo acin'o zandondo na wa'azi ga beyau dagan eba Tsociubona Ucia egwalu la'adan etun dedeo na Sokoa fa be natso -- gan'anina alamari'uma danbe Sokoe zana ma gake dazhin lulo etun dede be na  to za wuncinzhi ga yiegi mina zhio bagabo ma'afi tutun yin'o.



Surah 2:276,Allah will deprive usury of all blessing but will give increase for deeds of charity: For He loveth not creatures ungrateful and wicked.,Sokoe la albarka wa ewo ribao umae la bibe albarka dan ewo swadaka zhio Soko mae wa zandondo na gae ' jin kafirinci na'a umae wa zana ejin le'fi na'a.



Surah 2:277,Those who believe and do deeds of righteousness and establish regular prayers and regular charity will have their reward with their Lord: on them shall be no fear nor shall they grieve.,Akika za nazhia imani jin na aci ke'lo etun wangizhi na acia swallazhi kugikini na acia zakka dukiya' azhi wa na ayi be la'ada ayin dan eba Tsucia bo dansun ndondo ma'dan bea yin'a ama'aleyangbannyin yea.



Surah 2:278,O ye who believe! Fear Allah and give up what remains of your demand for usury if ye are indeed believers.,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na! E sundan Soso ye maela egwa lue lae dan etun ndondo na ga ke yan riba na wu'n ayi Muminizhi ga yeyio na.



Surah 2:279,If ye do it not Take notice of war from Allah and His Messenger: But if ye turn back ye shall have your capital sums: Deal not unjustly and ye shall not be dealt with unjustly.,To kagan ye be lugwa'a to ye kpe wo ke ekun danbo dagan eba Soko be Tuci uyin na Yee ma ga tuba jin yea egwa la'asun Nna yan ewo yeyan asali ye ga jin zandondo gun ma;zandondoma 'uga jin ye gun ma.



Surah 2:279,If ye do it not Take notice of war from Allah and His Messenger: But if ye turn back ye shall have your capital sums: Deal not unjustly and ye shall not be dealt with unjustly.,To kagan ye be lugwa'a to ye kpe wo ke ekun danbo dagan eba Soko be Tuci uyin na Yee ma ga tuba jin yea egwa la'asun Nna yan ewo yeyan asali ye ga jin zandondo gun ma;zandondoma 'uga jin ye gun ma.



Surah 2:280,If the debtor is in a difficulty grant him time Till it is easy for him to repay. But if ye remit it by way of charity that is best for you if ye only knew.,(Za na la gbata na) Uga bea zhe eza ezo (eba gbata yao) epata yau da lokaci na saukia be yau na ye ma ga'la jin swadaka yau wuncin de alheri gan ya ye ye ga kpekpe na.



Surah 2:280,If the debtor is in a difficulty grant him time Till it is easy for him to repay. But if ye remit it by way of charity that is best for you if ye only knew.,(Za na la gbata na) Uga bea zhe eza ezo (eba gbata yao) epata yau da lokaci na saukia be yau na ye ma ga'la jin swadaka yau wuncin de alheri gan ya ye ye ga kpekpe na.



Surah 2:281,And fear the Day when ye shall be brought back to Allah. Then shall every soul be paid what it earned and none shall be dealt with unjustly.,Ye mae sundsn efo nini ke'te na aga ye la'azheban zhin eba Soko miniubo na. Gancin aciga gbT wo ya rayindondo be iri woce na uga cena zando ma'jin'a gun'a.



Surah 2:282,O ye who believe! When ye deal with each other in transactions involving future obligations in a fixed period of time reduce them to writing Let a scribe write down faithfully as between the parties: let not the scribe refuse to write: as Allah Has taught him so let him write. Let him who incurs the liability dictate but let him fear His Lord Allah and not diminish aught of what he owes. If they party liable is mentally deficient or weak or unable Himself to dictate Let his guardian dictate faithfully and get two witnesses out of your own men and if there are not two men then a man and two women such as ye choose for witnesses so that if one of them errs the other can remind her. The witnesses should not refuse when they are called on (For evidence). Disdain not to reduce to writing (your contract) for a future period whether it be small or big: it is juster in the sight of Allah More suitable as evidence and more convenient to prevent doubts among yourselves but if it be a transaction which ye carry out on the spot among yourselves there is no blame on you if ye reduce it not to writing. But take witness whenever ye make a commercial contract; and let neither scribe nor witness suffer harm. If ye do (such harm) it would be wickedness in you. So fear Allah; For it is Good that teaches you. And Allah is well acquainted with all things. If ye are on a journey and cannot find a scribe a pledge with possession (may serve the purpose). And if one of you deposits a thing on trust with another let the trustee (faithfully) discharge his trust and let him Fear his Lord conceal not evidence; for whoever conceals it - his heart is tainted with sin. And Allah knoweth all that ye do.,Ya ye nazhia imani jin na! Ye ga be cia la gbata ya za yan dan da lokaci ndoci na yi kpikpeci na ye'u ka za na ma ga kau nawyun'u kau be adalinciy. Za na ma'aka na uga navo ma wyun'u kau kendoe Soko gala wu'una ulau ka acin. Za na ma gbata ta'tiu bo na wyuntso ga' tun gbatau yeo uma'usundan Soko nayi Tsocin na. Wyun'u ga ke yandondo minibo tukun ma. Za na ma gbata ta tiubo na wun'ayi eza danyagi uyio ko ma'za gbogun ko ma wyun'tso tun'uye woa za na ga agikini waliy yau na wyun'u tun'gbata'u ye be adlinciy ye mae wa eri guba mini bagi yezhio kagan yebe de bagi gubaa to ewa bagi nini be yinzagi gubae mini zanazhi ye jin yeda be uyin yan erizhi na ebo ka bea batan zabaci tso a pa dozhi tukpa. Erizhi ma'aga navoma kamina aga yia na ye mae ga bo be ki kae ma tetengi uyio ko wanciko ye'u ka. Dafona aga lacici na. Wuncinzhi gayi adalinci eba Soko bo wuncin ma gboka gan eba erijin'o uma tsoba gan na'ala yeajin ke-lo-kezhin'a nao saide wun'ayi woce egwa be gwae tsakanieb



Surah 2:283,If ye are on a journey and cannot find a scribe a pledge with possession (may serve the purpose). And if one of you deposits a thing on trust with another Let the trustee (Faithfully) discharge His trust and let him fear his Lord. Conceal not evidence; for whoever conceals it- His heart is tainted with sin. And Allah Knoweth all that ye do.,Ye ma ga'afe ta eti ezan'o ye ma de za na'akana'a toyea yandoci la'akpetso na kun' yn la shishi na. Ye ma ga aminci kun'utswa amana uma'u sundan Soko nayi Tsocin na. Ye mae ga swo eri ma zandondo na ga swo'u na za wuncin'a eti tacin 'u jin gun. Soko ma yi be kpikpe etun nazhi ye'lo na.



Surah 2:284,To Allah belongeth all that is in the heavens and on earth. Whether ye show what is in your minds or conceal it Allah Calleth you to account for it. He forgiveth whom He pleaseth and punisheth whom He pleaseth for Allah hath power over all things.,Yan nazhi fi samazhio na to nazhi fi kinbo na Sokwun'o ye ma ga yan nazhi fi yangban yezhiona tula ko ma ye ciu swo Soko wa dudugi uza ebo gbata wo'o gancin ucia fa be za na ga bau na za na ma ga ba'u na wyun'a jin'u azaba Soko ma de iko ta eti jijin yandondo.



Surah 2:285,The Messenger believeth in what hath been revealed to him from his Lord as do the men of faith. Each one (of them) believeth in Allah His angels His books and His messengers. "We make no distinction (they say) between one and another of His messengers." And they say: "We hear and we obey: (We seek) Thy forgiveness our Lord and to Thee is the end of all journeys.",Tuci Soko wyun'a imani jinbe yanna acin be ya 'udagan eba Tsocin bo na to muminizhi kpata'a a imani jin be Sokoe be malaikazhi be litafiuzhiy be Tucinzhiy a ma gan: "Yi wo yima ga emi tu (foro Soko).Tsociyi fa be yi yin eba wyo ma ga yi yio zheban zhin'o.



Surah 2:286,On no soul doth Allah Place a burden greater than it can bear. It gets every good that it earns and it suffers every ill that it earns. (Pray:) "Our Lord! Condemn us not if we forget or fall into error; our Lord! Lay not on us a burden Like that which Thou didst lay on those before us; Our Lord! Lay not on us a burden greater than we have strength to bear. Blot out our sins and grant us forgiveness. Have mercy on us. Thou art our Protector; Help us against those who stand against faith.",Soko mae la kpaka a'ta rayia sai natso uga'a lowo na egagba wangi ga jin tabata yan yan woce wangi na'uce na egagba dede maga'jin tabbata yan yan woce dede na'u ga ce na. Tsociyi! Ga wan yi ma be iri le'fi na yi gajin eti tanbao ko bicicin;o na . Ya wyoe Tsoci yi! Wyo mao ga la ekpinlu ta yi ma kendoe wyo la ta eti zanazhi shidzo nao ma. Tsoci yi! Ga la yi da la kara na yi kun kagboa na ma. Wyo mao fa be yi yin wyo jin yi gafara wyo mao gun yi ye wyo ga yi Ndakata yi yio ebo acin 'o jin yi taimako ta eti jama'a yan kafirizhio.



