Surah 76:1   ,        Has there not been over Man a long period of Time when he was nothing - (not even) mentioned,Akika lokaci be shidzo batsozhio nan zawangi u 'y yandondo nan'a tunye naa na.
Surah 76:2     ,    Verily We created Man from a drop of mingled sperm in order to try him: So We gave him (the gifts) of Hearing and Sight.,Akika Yia halitta yan zawangi jin dagan nuwan yan mani'i bo nan'a bo keba (tsakani bagi be inzagi'i nan). Ebo ma yi'i ma wun'i cin'ile Yi ciu ya tukpa yan gan wo Yi ci kezhe'u ya eye nan'u ga cin ba le nan.
Surah 76:3  ,    We showed him the Way: whether he be grateful or ungrateful (rests on his will).,Yi ma' zawangi wuba lo eko nan tso yi gboro nan U ga bau u la'u fe za nan'e jin yebo ya Soko nan(be emi latu foro'u yin) U ga bau U lau cin mannan'ubo be Sokoe (U fe'u le umurni Soko u ba).
Surah 76:4   ,  For the Rejecters we have prepared chains yokes and a blazing Fire.,Akika Yia shiri jin ka kafirizhi be dzari'i to kuru to enan yan Sa'iru'i.
Surah 76:5   ,    As to the Righteous they shall drink of a Cup (of Wine) mixed with Kafur-,Akika eza kirkizhi a fe fin nuwan mannan gizhi nan a zhin keba be kafuru'i nan.
Surah 76:6 ,     A Fountain where the Devotees of Allah do drink making it flow in unstinted abundance.,(Kafur'nan nan) nuwan mannan gi uyio nan wuzhi Soko guru zhi a fe de yan'a fin kandondo nan.
Surah 76:7,      They perform (their) vows and they fear a Day whose evil flies far and wide.,Za nanzhie la tun lo eti emi nanzhi a ga she be Soko enan. A maajin a fe' sundan efo nan sharri'u dokun nan. (Efo kiyama dan'o nan).
Surah 76:7  ,    They perform (their) vows and they fear a Day whose evil flies far and wide.,Za nanzhie la tun lo eti emi nanzhi a ga she be Soko enan. A maajin a fe' sundan efo nan sharri'u dokun nan. (Efo kiyama dan'o nan).
Surah 76:8   ,   And they feed for the love of Allah the indigent the orphan and the captive-,A ma'a jin a fe' la yangici ya eza gwagbagizhi be ekungi zhi to za nanzhi a ga wan ekunda'o nan alhali'I ma'a tso yi be bukatau yin.
Surah 76:9 ,        (Saying)"We feed you for the sake of Allah alone: no reward do we desire from you nor thanks.,(Acia jin a fe' gan'gan): Akika Yi ye' ya ye yangici yagi ebo wiwa yan yarda Soko. Yi mae wa egagba ndoci ko yebo jin dagan eba ye boa.
Surah 76:10  ,    "We only fear a Day of distressful Wrath from the side of our Lord.",Akika Yie sundan azaba dagan eba Tsoci yibo yan efo nan fuska ekundondo zazhi ga'a shizhiko nan Efo nan lukpin sarauyin nan.
Surah 76:11    ,   But Allah will deliver them from the evil of that Day and will shed over them a Light of Beauty and (blissful) Joy.,Soko ci'a gan' gwa be sharri yan efo wuncin Ucia la gun be haske ganni be yangban fa'e.
Surah 76:12 ,   And because they were patient and constant He will reward them with a Garden and (garments of) silk.,Soko cia egagba wangi la'a yaa yan aljanna be tufuwa yan silki zhi'i ebo hakuri nan a fe' jin eti emi latu foro Soko nan.
Surah 76:13     ,    Reclining in the (Garden) on raised thrones they will see there neither the sun´s (excessive heat) nor (the moon´s) excessive cold.,Aci ga kpetso ta eti gadoa zhio mini aljanna'o a'wo ba nan gun'a ama'a wo bayeko tsuntsun nua.
Surah 76:14   ,  And the shades of the (Garden) will come low over them and the bunches (of fruit) there will hang low in humility.,Wuru yan cigban aljannazhi ga'a tso ba'a aci ga to yangici sun-sun'u zhi la'zhin kin baenio.
Surah 76:15   ,    And amongst them will be passed round vessels of silver and goblets of crystal-,A ma'a fe man'a kezhe be evo yan azarfa zhi'i (yan yangici mannangi zhi) to kopu zhi nan zhie ban nan nan.
Surah 76:16  ,  Crystal-clear made of silver: they will determine the measure thereof (according to their wishes).,Evo wuncin zhi a jin-a-jin' be azarfae aci'u dan tsunwan be gwargwado bukata zandondoe.
Surah 76:17,     And they will be given to drink there of a Cup (of Wine) mixed with Zanjabil,-A ma'a kezhe ya' nuwan egye mannagi zhi fin Nuwan egye wuncin a zhin'u zhin ke ba be "zanjabi'la'e".(Zanjabi'ila nuwan yan ekan' uyio nan ela yangici de ekan sarauyin nan).
Surah 76:18 ,  A fountain there called Salsabil.,Nuwan ndoci ke' danbo nan e yi gan salsabi'ila nan. (nan egi aljanna zhi a de fin nan).
Surah 76:19    ,    And round about them will (serve) youths of perpetual (freshness): If thou seest them thou wouldst think them scattered Pearls.,Egi wawagi ndoci zhi afe ma'egi mi aljanna zhi kezhe (egi wuncin zhi a ga jin tabbata ta eti dzakan bo'a bo be egye'a bo. Wyo ga la eye cin'a le Wyoa ye gan ko alulu'izhio nan'a gaya zhi-zhi nan.
Surah 76:20    ,  And when thou lookest it is there thou wilt see a Bliss and a Realm Magnificent.,Wyo ga' yan nanzhi fi aljanna'o nan leye wyo'a le eyan ni'ima iri-iri zhi ye ganni be mulki nan wanci sarauyin nan.
Surah 76:21   ,         Upon them will be green Garments of fine silk and heavy brocade and they will be adorned with Bracelets of silver; and their Lord will give to them to drink of a Wine Pure and Holy.,Tufuwa' nan tso latu gan nanu ga yi yan silikio nuwan aliga U mae ban nan. Aci ga'a panin be azarfa zhi. Baci wuncin'o acia ke zhe ya'a nuwan lilici zhi fin.
Surah 76:22  ,     "Verily this is a Reward for you and your Endeavour is accepted and recognised.",Akika egagba nan nan zhi kpata yan ye' ayio. Akika etun nanzhi ye fe lo izheo nan Sokoa yarda jin bea yin.
Surah 76:23 ,    It is We Who have sent down the Qur´an to thee by stages.,Akika Yi ga cin Alkur'anu be ya wyo nini nini'o.
Surah 76:23    , It is We Who have sent down the Qur´an to thee by stages.Akika Yi ga cin Alkur'anu be ya wyo nini nini'o.
Surah 76:24,        Therefore be patient with constancy to the Command of thy Lord and hearken not to the sinner or the ingrate among them.,(Annabi) a hakuri jin be hukunci nanzhi Tsoci wyoe la ya wyo nan. Wyo mao ga la mitu za nanzhie' le Soko ba to kafirizhi na ma.
Surah 76:25   , And celebrate the name of thy Lord morning and evening,Wyo mao fe'o dokun be yetuu yan Tsoci Wyo yin to lazhin to lozun.
Surah 76:26  ,    And part of the night prostrate thyself to Him; and glorify Him a long night through.,Eye gaashi fe dokun be jin jin yan sujadae Wyo mao feo li Soko lokaci nan lokpa nan dan mini yeshio.
Surah 76:27  ,     As to these they love the fleeting life and put away behind them a Day (that will be) hard.,Akika (kafirizhi to munafikizhi) za wuncin zhi kpata izhe nan fan'yin zo nan ugae'e' de cin cin yao acia efo nan tso lukpin sarauyin nan yaci zunmao
Surah 76:28  ,      It is We Who created them and We have made their joints strong; but when We will We can substitute the like of them by a complete change.,Yi ga jin alitta'a o Yicia' kagbo laa dan gaba-gaba zhio. U ga ba Yi Yi ga jin hallaka Yici ga zandoci zhi jin (nanzhia fe jin bauta ya Soko nan).
Surah 76:28    ,    It is We Who created them and We have made their joints strong; but when We will We can substitute the like of them by a complete change.,Yi ga jin alitta'a o Yicia' kagbo laa dan gaba-gaba zhio. U ga ba Yi Yi ga jin hallaka Yici ga zandoci zhi jin (nanzhia fe jin bauta ya Soko nan).
Surah 76:29 ,       This is an admonition: Whosoever will let him take a (straight) Path to his Lord.,Akika aya nan nan zhi tukpa pa ayio za nan'u ga ba nan ula gwa'u sun etun guruzhi'u fe'ulo U ma'u ta eti eko nan Tsociu la cici nan.
Surah 76:30         , But ye will not except as Allah wills; for Allah is full of Knowledge and Wisdom.,Yandondo nan ma gae ba ye nan sai u ga ba Soko shidzo bedzo. Akika Soko Etsu kpikpe uyio. Egba u ma yi dan jin jin yandondo bo.
Surah 76:31   ,      He will admit to His Mercy whom He will; But the wrong-doers- for them has He prepared a grievous Penalty.,Sokoa jin u la za nan ga bau na aa gandan mini yegun'u bo Soko ma shiri yan azaba nan tan nan jin ka 
