Surah 54:1,    The Hour (of Judgment) is nigh and the moon is cleft asunder.,Alkiyami'a tso ba kpankpan yin to etswa ma'a la fi. (guba)
Surah 54:2    ,  But if they see a Sign they turn away and say "This is (but) transient magic.",A ma ga aya le ye a zunma zheta'u a cia gan gan: eyanmau yio na'a gwogan nan.
Surah 54:3  ,   They reject (the warning) and follow their (own) lusts but every matter has its appointed time.,Aciu yi ganmanan acia emi tu etun yangban'azhi akika alamari ndondo (nan Sokoe gan nan) U ga ajin tabbata.
Surah 54:4   ,   There have already come to them Recitals wherein there is (enough) to check (them),Akika ma mini labari nanzhiy be ya'nan ade dan minia bo nanzhi yi yan waniko nan.
Surah 54:5,    Mature wisdom;- but (the preaching of) Warners profits them not.,Hikima u yio na'a kunke nan ammade gangba jin'a anfania.
Surah 54:6  ,     Therefore (O Prophet) turn away from them. The Day that the Caller will call (them) to a terrible affair,A dzun gan; abo har da efo nan za nae yi zazhi nan U gaa yia lo yan doci nan yi eyan dede nan (azaba).
Surah 54:7   ,    They will come forth- their eyes humbled - from (their) graves (torpid) like locusts scattered abroad,Eyeazhi ga'gba gba Wyo'a ye gan ko borogizhio nan zhi a ga nan.
Surah 54:8 ,      Hastening with eyes transfixed towards the Caller!- "Hard is this Day!" the Unbelievers will say.,Acia fe din ye lo'eba za nae yia nan kafirizhi a fe gan fo ga gan: Yinna nan nan efo nan lukpin nan uyio.
Surah 54:9  ,      Before them the People of Noah rejected (their messenger): they rejected Our servant and said "Here is one possessed!" and he was driven out.,Jama'a yan Nuhu zhiotso a tucizhi yi ganmanan aci fe sha fi u.
Surah 54:10    ,Then he called on his Lord: "I am one overcome: do Thou then help (me)!",Uci ba Tsoci'u aduwa gan: akika a mi zankpe eboacin'o Soko jin mi taimako.
Surah 54:11,    So We opened the gates of heaven with water pouring forth.,Yicia eko yan Sanma zhi kpe be nuwan nan fe cinzhin be kagboe nan.
Surah 54:12     ,   And We caused the earth to gush forth with springs so the waters met (and rose) to the extent decreed.,Yici kezhea eya nuwanzhi kpe kinbo nuwanzhi cia keba eti alamari nan Soko a kpa a ni nan.
Surah 54:13,    But We bore him on an (Ark) made of broad planks and caulked with palm-fibre:,Yicia wuntso la dan mini eyao naakan be katankozhiy be kwontoe nan.
Surah 54:14  ,   She floats under our eyes (and care): a recompense to one who had been rejected (with scorn)!,Uci fe bici be etswa Yi yin wuncin ma egagba u yio yazandondo nan aga jin kafirinci beu yin nae.
Surah 54:15  ,   And We have left this as a Sign (for all time): then is there any that will receive admonition,Yiciu la'afe aya ko a de za nan a santu nan
Surah 54:16,   But how (terrible) was My Penalty and My Warning,Ngba ke nangban azaba Mi yi yi be gangba nae jin'anan yi nao
Surah 54:17   ,   And We have indeed made the Qur´an easy to understand and remember: then is there any that will receive admonition,Akika yi ya Aluranu laafe eyan finfanci ebo sinsantuo. Ngba a de za na'a gwo sin san tu nan
Surah 54:18 ,    The ´Ad (people) (too) rejected (Truth): then how terrible was My Penalty and My Warning,Jama'a yan Aduzhi a Tuci yi gan manan. Ngba ke nangban azaba Mi be gangba nanzhie jin'a nan yi yi nao
Surah 54:19 ,       For We sent against them a furious wind on a Day of violent Disaster,Akika Yi tun efe nan wo nan Sarauyin nan fia dan mini efo nan wonan nao na mae lo ye be ena-woe nan.
Surah 54:20  ,   Plucking out men as if they were roots of palm-trees torn up (from the ground).,Wun'e gbin zawangi ya wyo'a ye gan ko cigban dobinazhi a yio nanzhi gbin cici nan.
Surah 54:21,   Yea how (terrible) was My Penalty and My Warning!,Ngba ke nangban yan azaba Mi yi yi be gangba nae jin'a nan yi nao
Surah 54:22  ,    But We have indeed made the Qur´an easy to understand and remember: then is there any that will receive admonition,Akika Yi Alkuranu la'afe fanci ebo sin santu o. Ngba ade za na'a santu nan
Surah 54:23  ,The Thamud (also) rejected (their) Warners.,Jam'a yan Samuduzhi a gangba nanzhijin'a nan yi ganma nan.
Surah 54:24     ,    For they said: "What! a man! a Solitary one from among ourselves! shall we follow such a one Truly should we then be straying in mind and mad!,Aci gan: Gbani zae ni mini yi bo tsa yi yia be gbao Yi ma gaa jin acin yi yia fe dan mini egbin'o be wawaboe.
Surah 54:25   ,     "Is it that the Message is sent to him of all people amongst us Nay he is a liar an insolent one!",Kashiy wun'tsa a be tsa mini yi bo acia la wahayi'a ya wun'o A'a u jin acin'a ganmanan zunci tsa'u yio U mayi eza dede.
Surah 54:26,    Ah! they will know on the morrow which is the liar the insolent one!,Bele yin aakpe esun. Za nan ga yi ganmanan zunci Uma yi za dede nan.
Surah 54:27,      For We will send the she-camel by way of trial for them. So watch them (O Salih) and possess thyself in patience!,Akika Yi'a tun yiwo fia ebo ula'ufe yaa ebo acin'o ofe tuaye wyo mao la yangban'o wu.
Surah 54:28   ,    And tell them that the water is to be divided between them: Each one´s right to drink being brought forward (by suitable turns).,Wyo mao ya'a labari ke nuwan ginganci u yio tsakaniabo be efo yan fin fin'u yin nan wun'alo da fin nan.
Surah 54:29 ,  But they called to their companion and he took a sword in hand and hamstrung (her).,Aci yi zaba'a Uci da la ebiko cia rakum tun'yan ci'u wu.
Surah 54:30 ,  Ah! how (terrible) was My Penalty and My Warning!,Ngba ke nangban yan azaba mMi yi yi be gangba nanzhi e jin'a na yi nao
Surah 54:31  ,     For We sent against them a single Mighty Blast and they became like the dry stubble used by one who pens cattle.,Akika Yi tun kabara nini fia acia fe ke egwo wiwoci nan'e la ya dabbazhi gi nan.
Surah 54:32    ,  And We have indeed made the Qur´an easy to understand and remember: then is there any that will receive admonition,Akika Yi'a Alkuranu la'a fe fin fanci ebo sin santuo. Ngba a de za na'a santu nan
Surah 54:33 ,  The people of Lut rejected (his) warning.,Jamaa yan Lutu zhia gangba nan zhi a jin'a nan yi ganmanan.
Surah 54:34   ,     We sent against them a violent Tornado with showers of stones (which destroyed them) except Lut´s household: them We delivered by early Dawn-,Akika Yi tun takunzhi fia (acia jin hallaka) sai de iyali yan (Annabi) Lutuzhi Yi yia gangwa lokaci yan sahuruy.
Surah 54:35,      As a Grace from Us: thus do We reward those who give thanks.,Nan nan ni'ima'uyio dagan eba Yi bo acinga ga egagba yio ya zandondo nan gae jin yebo nao.
Surah 54:36 ,   And (Lut) did warn them of Our Punishment but they disputed about the Warning.,Akika Ujin'a gangba be win'wan yi Yin acia gangbau gbo'mi.
Surah 54:37   ,     And they even sought to snatch away his guests from him but We blinded their eyes. (They heard:) "Now taste ye My Wrath and My Warning.",Akika a wa gan ajin lalata be eganzhiy Yi eyezhi fin ya gancin e fe fin azaba Mi to gangba nanzhi a fe jin'e nan.
Surah 54:38    ,Early on the morrow an abiding Punishment seized them:,Akika azaba na'ajin tabbata nan da de'ade saka be asuba yin.Surah 54:39  "So taste ye My Wrath and My Warning."Ebo aci'o efe fin azaba Mi be gangba nanzhiy a jin'e nan.
Surah 54:40      ,And We have indeed made the Qur´an easy to understand and remember: then is there any that will receive admonition,Akika Yi'a Alkuranu la'afe fin-fanci ebo sinsan tuo. Ngba ade za na'a santu nan
Surah 54:41,    To the People of Pharaoh too aforetime came Warners (from Allah).,Akika gangbazhi be eba iyali yan Firauna zhi.
Surah 54:42    ,  The (people) rejected all Our Signs; but We seized them with such Penalty (as comes) from One Exalted in Power able to carry out His Will.,Acia aya Yizhi kpata yi ganmanan Yi cia wan win wan yan zana de zankpe Uma de I'I ko nan.
Surah 54:43    ,    Are your Unbelievers (O Quraish) better than they Or have ye an immunity in the Sacred Books,Gbani kafiri yezhi ade alheri gan nanzhiy shidzonan Kashi yede wandzun ndoci de dan mini Litafio.
Surah 54:44    O,r do they say: "We acting together can defend ourselves",Kashiy e gan gan gag: Yi jama'azhi yi yio nanzhi ga de nasara nan.
Surah 54:45 ,  Soon will their multitude be put to flight and they will show their backs.,Bele yin  a ga gungun yekan'azhi ga ya aciga zunma ya cia fe bici.
Surah 54:46  ,   Nay the Hour (of Judgment) is the time promised them (for their full recompense): And that Hour will be most grievous and most bitter.,A'a alkiyami tsa yi lokaci alkawalio masi-ba yan alkiyami ma u tsun u ma luku.
Surah 54:47    ,Truly those in sin are the ones straying in mind and mad.,Akika lefi jincizhi afi mini egba'o be azba yan enae.
Surah 54:48    ,    The Day they will be dragged through the Fire on their faces (they will hear:) "Taste ye the touch of Hell!",Fo nan a gba'agba eti fuskaazhio da fi enao nan (a cia gan'a gan): Efe fin nangban yan ena sakaru.
Surah 54:49  ,  Verily all things have We created in proportion and measure.,Akika Yi jin yandondo jin be tsunwan'e.
Surah 54:50 ,    And Our Command is but a single (Act)- like the twinkling of an eye.,Alamari Yi ma fe'a sai de yan'ni ke eya ba nan.
Surah 54:51   ,  And (oft) in the past have We destroyed gangs like unto you: then is there any that will receive admonition,Akika ma Yi jin jama'a iri yezhi hallaka shidzo. Ko ade za na'a san tu minie bo nan.
Surah 54:52    ,All that they do is noted in (their) Books (of Deeds):,Akika etun ndondo nan a lo nan u yi kikaci fi Litafizhio.
Surah 54:53  , Every matter small and great is on record.,Etun tetengi kpata to wanciko kikaci a yio.
Surah 54:54    ,As to the Righteous they will be in the midst of Gardens and Rivers,Akika za nanzhie sundan Soko nan a fi aljannazhio ba nan nuwanzhie je fi nan.
Surah 54:55     ,In an Assembly of Truth in the Presence of a Sovereign Omnipotent.,A fi edunfe ba yan gaskiyao eba Etsu mulkiko nan ma de kagbo nan.
