Surah 55:1 ,(Allah) Most Gracious!,Soko (Etsu yegun).
Surah 55:2 ,It is He Who has taught the Qur´an.,Wun'a kpikpe Alkuranu la'awu alttazhi.
Surah 55:3 ,He has created man:,Wun'a alitta yan zawangi jin.
Surah 55:4 ,He has taught him speech (and intelligence).,U ci'u wu egan ye kpe.
Surah 55:5 , The sun and the moon follow courses (exactly) computed;,Igidi to etswa e dazan da ganni be Lisafiy.
Surah 55:7  , And the Firmament has He raised high and He has set up the Balance (of Justice),Uma'sanma la tu U cia tsunwan la'a cici.
Surah 55:8  , In order that ye may not transgress (due) balance.,Ebo ye ga gwo iyaka gan eba tsunwan dan'o ma.
Surah 55:9   ,  So establish weight with justice and fall not short in the balance.,Ye mae la tsunwan'e kue gikini be adalinci ye mae ga ke tsunwan tukun ma.
Surah 55:10,  It is He Who has spread out the earth for (His) creatures:,To kin ma Wun 'u la'acici ebo alittazhio.
Surah 55:11 ,   Therein is fruit and date-palms producing spathes (enclosing dates);,Miniubo yangici sunsunzhi fi bo to dobinazhi nanzhiyi be kperezhiy nan.
Surah 55:12 ,  Also corn with (its) leaves and stalk for fodder and sweet-smelling plants.,To eyan dzozhi nanzhiy yi be finizhiy nan to nanzhiy man a mae ya kan kan.
Surah 55:13  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci ye zhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan-nao.
Surah 55:14,    He created man from sounding clay like unto pottery,U jin alitta yan zawangi dagan lamkpa wiwacio nan yi ke ezun pi poci nan.
Surah 55:15 ,    And He created Jinns from fire free of smoke:,U ma jin alitta yan januzhi jin dagan enan cikarao.
Surah 55:16,   Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini a ya Tso ci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:17,   (He is) Lord of the two Easts and Lord of the two Wests:,Tsoci yan eyilazhin guba (yan zunzunka be yan ikere) to Tsoci yan eyi lozun guba.
Surah 55:18,   Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:19,  He has let free the two bodies of flowing water meeting together:,U je edu iri guba nanzhie keba nan. (edu manangi be edu nan yi esan esan nan).
Surah 55:20,   Between them is a Barrier which they do not transgress:,Tsakaniabo be dozhiy shamaki danbo nan la'egwo iyaka gan'a nan.
Surah 55:21  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi gan manan nao
Surah 55:22,   Out of them come Pearls and Coral:,Miniabo e de alulu'izhi to marjanuzhi ku tin ya bo.
Surah 55:23   ,Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:24  ,   And His are the Ships sailing smoothly through the seas lofty as mountains:,U ma yi be eya nuwanzhiy nanzhi a tswa nan e dazan kpe eti eduzhio ke pati wancikozhi nan.
Surah 55:25  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye denyKici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan yea yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:26 ,  All that is on earth will perish:Z,aeni ndondo nan ga ta eti izheo nan eyan zwozwoci u yio.
Surah 55:27    , But will abide (for ever) the Face of thy Lord- full of Majesty Bounty and Honour.,Zati yan Tsoci wye gbaugi gaa keo Etsu elatu Etsu cinwan.
Surah 55:28 ,  Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aaya yan Tsoci yezhio dan bo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:29    ,     Of Him seeks (its need) every creature in the heavens and on earth: every day in (new) Splendour doth He (shine)!,Zandondo nan fi sanmazhio to kin bo nan e ba yan ba be'u yin fondondo ma u ta eti sha'anio.
Surah 55:30  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:31   ,Soon shall We settle your affairs O both ye worlds!,Bele yin Yi ga eda kpe ya ye (Yan egagba) Ya ye nan yi eza ekpin lucizhi nan (to zawangizhi to jannuzhi)
Surah 55:32 ,  Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:33    ,           O ye assembly of Jinns and men! If it be ye can pass beyond the zones of the heavens and the earth pass ye! not without authority shall ye be able to pass!,Ya ye jama'a yan jannuzhi to zawangizhi ye ga de I ko nan ye'a gan dan nin yan fi-fi yan sanmazhio be kin yin nan e fe gandan ammade ye'a gandan'a woa sai de be hujjazhiy.
Surah 55:34  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:35   ,    On you will be sent (O ye evil ones twain!) a flame of fire (to burn) and a smoke (to choke): no defence will ye have:,A ce enan cikara be enan wu yipae kea Ebo acin'o ye'a de nasara'a.Surah 55:36   Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye denyKici mini a yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:37   ,  When the sky is rent asunder and it becomes red like ointment:Kami na sanma ga bea lafi nan Uci ga zhe dzuruy ke emi dzuru nan.
Surah 55:38   ,Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:39  ,     On that Day no question will be asked of man or Jinn as to his sin.,Efo wuncin a gbin zawangi a gbin zawangi ko jannu egan zunubiu gbin'a. (atso akpe yannan a ga dan'y ninbo nan).
Surah 55:40  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'ayi gan manan nao
Surah 55:41  ,   (For) the sinners will be known by their marks: and they will be seized by their forelocks and their feet.,A'kpe lefi jinci ye be alama azhiy aciga egwa sun; a yegun'azhio to biciazhio.Surah 55:42   Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye denyKici mini a ya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:43  ,   This is the Hell which the Sinners deny:,Nna nan ga yi ena yan jahannama nan Kafirizhie yi ganmanan nao.
Surah 55:44 ,   In its midst and in the midst of boiling hot water will they wander round!,A fe ma kezhe tsakani ubo nuwan yipa na'a sa nae.
Surah 55:45  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini a ya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:46 ,   But for such as fear the time when they will stand before (the Judgment Seat of) their Lord there will be two Gardens-,Zandondo nan magae sundan gbaro din gi yegboro Tsoci bo nan wun'a de aljanna guba.
Surah 55:47  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny-,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:48, Containing all kinds (of trees and delights);-,Nna yibe gwala gubae nan.
Surah 55:49,   Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny-,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye a yi ganmanan nao.
Surah 55:50  ,In them (each) will be two Springs flowing (free);,Miniabo eye nuwan guba danbo nanzhie je nan.
Surah 55:51,   Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny-,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao.
Surah 55:52    ,In them will be Fruits of every kind two and two.,Mini 'ubo yangici sun-sun fi bo nanzhi yi iri guba guba nan.
Surah 55:53 ,  Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'ayi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:54    ,    They will recline on Carpets whose inner linings will be of rich brocade: the Fruit of the Gardens will be near (and easy of reach).,A ga kpe tso fe woma ta eti yantacikozhio nin pa yan nin yan yantaci wuncinzhi istabrak a jin wun'o (wato silki nae ya'na nan) cigban sunsun yan aljannazhi ma ga tsoba kin kpan kpan yin (ebo fi fe gio).
Surah 55:55 ,  Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'ayi ganmanan nao.
Surah 55:56   ,     In them will be (Maidens) chaste restraining their glances whom no man or Jinn before them has touched;-,Miniabo ynzagizhi fibo nanzhie cin ba le zaanan (sai ebaa zhi). Zawangi ndondo ma la'a la egwa tu'a lea jannu ndondo mala la gwatu'a le shi dzo'a boa.
Surah 55:57   ,Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny-,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:58 , Like unto Rubies and coral.,Ynzagi wuncinzhi wyo'a ye gan ko yakutuzhi be mirjanuzhi a yio. (takun zhi a yio nanzhie ban'nan ama de daraja nan).
Surah 55:59,   Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'ayi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:60  ,  Is there any Reward for Good - other than Good,Ngan egagba yan etun wangi sai de egagba wangi.
Surah 55:61 ,  Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:62,  And besides these two there are two other Gardens-,Zunma wuncinzhio be aljanna guba danbo.
Surah 55:63   ,Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny-,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan yea yi ganmanan nao.
Surah 55:64,Dark-green in colour (from plentiful watering).,Nanzhie bannan yan aliga aliga nan kezhea shi zhiko be enaban'e nan.
Surah 55:65 ,  Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi gan manan noa
Surah 55:66  ,In them (each) will be two Springs pouring forth water in continuous abundance:,Miniabo eye nuwan guba danbo nae dzun tin ya kandondo nan.
Surah 55:67   ,Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:68 ,  In them will be Fruits and dates and pomegranates:,Miniabo yangi ci sunsunzhi to dobina to yangici yan rumanu fi bo.
Surah 55:69   ,Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:70,  In them will be fair (Companions) good beautiful;-,Miniabo ynzagizhi fibo nanzhi yi wangi wangi zhi nan a mayibologi bologizhi.
Surah 55:71  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny-,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan yea yi ganmanan nao.
Surah 55:71,   Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny-,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan yea yi ganmanan nao.
Surah 55:72 ,  Companions restrained (as to their glances) in (goodly) pavilions;-,Ynzagi yan Hurul 'aynizhi a yio nanzhi eyeazhi fu bokun sarauyin nan Uma kezhe shi zhiko sarauyin nan a ma swo'aswo fi eswo-bagi zhio.
Surah 55:73,   Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny-,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:74    , Whom no man or Jinn before them has touched;-,Zawangi ndondo ko jannu u la'a la'gwa tu'a le shidzo eba'azhi boa.
Surah 55:75   ,Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny-,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan yea yi ganmanan nao
.Surah 55:76   ,  Reclining on green Cushions and rich Carpets of beauty.,A ga kpetso cia fe wo'man ta eti gado putu ndocizhio nan yi nuwan aliga allga nan ganni be yantaci. Kozhi nanzhiy sa wangi nan.
Surah 55:77  , Then which of the favours of your Lord will ye deny,Kici mini aya yan Tsoci yezhio danbo nan ye'a yi ganmanan nao
Surah 55:78 ,    Blessed be the name of thy Lord full of Majesty Bounty and Honour.,Elatu a jin tabbata ya sunna Tsoci wye akika Soko Etsu cinwan U yio Etsu elatu uyio
