 A de lukuku fia a cin gwapa u le,You don't get a pigeon for nothing so look at the wings (I.e someone did something to the pigeon first

 A de gavo manin a nya na wu u na u ma gi,Don't rejoice over the finding of decayed fish for what killed it would have eaten it if it has been good

 A edzu de na ko kuru a kuru ga agena ke wo ga a ku da kun o?,If she wears her best clothes when making kuru food when it is cooked and taken out to be sold what will she then wear?

 A ela emi woro pa fini a,Ground-nut oil cannot be wrapped in a leaf

 A ekun esi nyikankpinci ya eza mi a,One would not sell a toothless dog to one's own household (i.e do good to your own

 A ele 'bi doko u sa waniko a,When they are sharpening a knife the horse has no fear

 A elo a 'mi lo na a elo a nin a,Even though you may enter the house you don't always enter the hearts.

. A ga ekpa nya nya a a kpa biye du,When one is thinking of dancing he must also consider that his body will shake

 Ajin a ce kpa kin yaba?,When one shoots an arrow does the ground move out of the way?

 A jin nyina ge ebo 'sun o,Do well to-day on account of tomorrow.

 A lo lati zin be tsun a ma mma; a lo lati zin be tsun a ma yaya a,To go to the farm and return and find that an uncle has been born is possible; but to go to the farm and return and find that an older brother has been born is impossible.

 A ma 'gi dede a la ya makunduunnu a,If a bad child is born they won't give it to the hyenas

 Asa! Dunguru n de bida a,Oh! My banjo has no bells on it (I.e just because there is no outward show connected with your work do not think it is useless

 Asiada u ka fu nyi ma a,To belittle honey does not hinder it from being sweet.

 A tu 'mi ka ye na a tu mi ka tukpa a,You may build a wall to stop people looking but can't build one to stop people hearing
 A yi we nna bakogi wo jin gaga bise na ema guwo na sunkun?,They call you the mother of twins and you are very proud what about the hen that has twn chicken?

 Bankotibu! Nuwon ese zin a,Water never fills a fish trap

 Berebere ga u le be ye ebe ma ga u le wuntso ye bedzo,One with good eyesight said that he saw a monkey the monkey said that he saw him first

 Bise sunsungi nya talaka wun ga yi nanko ruga wun o,The poor man's chicken are his cattle.(Make the best of what you have

 Bise sunsungi nya zunzunka u kpe lugbe ye a; nna u kpe u ye,Chicken hatched in the rainy season knows nothing about hawks but the mother hen does.

 Boloboloko! Ebo bo nuwonjeci a ,Running water never gets tired

 Cigban na ma 'na na u kno a,Wood that burns well will not last long(I.e the man that over-works shortens his life

 Cigbe na a le be koko nyi na kaga u zo gun a wun a zo mada,Medicine that is mixed with food even if it doesn't cure the disease will cure hunger

 Dagba ga a tsun ce dagba ga a go wun o,When an elephant kicks only an elephant can receive that kick.

 Daga fumfuruyi o acin a ka nyika o,When the fish is fresh is the best time to bend it. (Train a child when from young

 Dinniko ga yize yi vwonyi edzu ga u yi finyi,The fly says that the world is very large the spider says it is very small.
 Dzakangi u ga der yikuru nusa a gba u bara,If a child has food an old man will become his follower (I.e a man will do anything for a living

 Ebi nu u din fu ninmi wun a ,However sharp the blade may be it never makes its own handle

 Egba guba ta daga gulu a le mada,When two expert warriors join battle ther vultures will go to sleep hungry (I.e neither will kill the other

 Egban ga nya kin,Wisdom used while sewing accomplishes more than the needle (ie no matter how good the tools may be one must understand the work

 Egi kpatsun rakun u yi o ba na aba u na wun a ta nya u lo,A child is like a camel's neck it goes where it pleases

 Egun na ta gorozo na u gaga a edun u gbin o,When a great man is ill he doesn't speak he only groan

 Egi wun a ga ga wun a ku 'wo nda u fa u ga agba u kin,If a lad says that he will wear his father's clothes they will drag on the ground

 Eti u lo etitso a ,The head is never too heavy for its owner

 E toto dangi a enya na ewon bise na dokun,There are many things that catch chicken besides cats(Don't accuse hastily

 Ewa ga u kpe binakun ye tsukun kpe ga u,The snake says that it can do a mean trick (harm but a stick can do more
 Eya we ma 'koce we emanin wo tswa 'fo na eko u a be gun be wotso nyi na,Your friend is a good fighter and you are glad but guard against the day that he may fight you

 Ewo ma yi nyada gbatawo yi kasa,One comes to borrow money like a turtle with his head on the ground but pays it back like a crocodilewith his head in the air.

 Eye din tswa u ce lazin a,The new moon is never in such a hurry that it appears in the morning 
 Eza agban u ta a,A wise person will not talk about his wisdom

 Eza ga le zi nimi be sokogunci nyi wun a le gwa tsun ko,For one living in a leper-town it is better to close the fists so as to appear to have no fingers

 Eza awunkpa daga 'zi babo a le u ye ezi ndoci bo a, suna a tsa a lo bo,A person is never so tall that he can be seen from one town to another it is his name that will reach there.

 Eza eta ga wasa u ma wun a la gwa da emi 'wa bo a,Even though a man may boast that his antidote for a snale bite is the best he will not put his hand in a snake's hole to prove it.
