THE VICTORIOUS DURBAR OF ETSU UMARU SANDA ON IBB'S RETURN WAS MYTHICAL. 
I just want to eulogize a small part the size of atom of the bravery and uniqueness of Nupe culture and traditions.
 Note also, that I am not trying to tell people how we use our cultural tools to shape events, but just to keep it as a reminder to the generations yet to come. 
If you know where you come from, you are free from all the threats of the society.
 On the return of IBB back home (Minna) after serving this country for some years, he organized a Durbar celebration for himself to calm the atmosphere and relieve himself of the stresses he went through during his military service. 
He invited all the Tr aditional Rulers of Niger State to celebrate with him culturally. 
This celebration was not just to sit comfortably on the horse back doing nothing but to showcase your heritage to show the people the worth, myth and richness of your culture.  
So, the event started from the tail to the head. Other Emirs presented theirs without interference but when it got to the turn of Etsu Nupe Umaru Sanda Ndayako, God blessed Minna City with rain fall.
Everyone almost gave up. The band of drummers and some horse riders c ouldn't give - up because Etsu Nupe didn't give up. 
The only surprise we saw then was that, there was a high storm of breeze that took away Etsu Umaru Sanda Ndayako's royal Umbrella. 
The Cete man controlling it tried his best but couldn't resist the force of the storm dragging the Umbrella from him.
 At first, he was able to contain it but the strong wind later squeezed the Umbrella. 
That could lead to Etsu Nupe, Umaru Sanda Ndayako's failure in the historic event but with their strong faith, everything became normal. 
To our flabbergast, from nowhere, we just saw a fresh and more colourful Umbrella rotating above our Etsu Nupe, Umaru Sanda Ndayako. 
This time it was the mother and child's Umbrella. 
The Umbrella was believed to be made to appear spiritually by NnaSagi who was also at the event.
 It was raining and Mayaki Nupe and other respected Nupe Traditionalists were just sweating. 
In fact, General Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida and the audience were surprised that Etsu Nupe Umaru Sanda Ndayako's Royal Rigalia was not wet.
 The crowd's spirit was boosted by that unimaginable performance of wonder. 
When the horse got to the centre of the event, it also joined the wonders.
 It played with its front legs and danced to the Nupe Gbando (drum beaten with the hands).
 That h orse is the only horse we have ever seen dancing. Etsu Nupe Umaru Sanda Ndayako couldn't hide his joy. He, for sure knew already that the victory was his. 
That meant History had repeated itself because his father Etsu Nupe Muhammadu Bakudu Ndayako did some thing similar during KADUNA DURBAR when Queen Elizabeth visited Nigeria for the first time.
 In the history of Nupe Kingdom, no Etsu Nupe has ever attended any Festival without the knowledge of his subjects a n d o t h e r N u p e n ciz hi a c r o s s t h e w o rld. H e g o e s wit h t h e m. 
S a giz hi, G b o y a z hi, a n d o t h e r 

 
Traditional spiritualists.
 Kuta Muregi swam in dry sand and even caught a big fish out of the dry sand.
  Nupe Masquerades gave birth to a baby. Two Masquerades rotated on each other.
 Nnasagi p e r f o r m e d h e r s pirit u al w o n d e r s.
 S h e u s e d a c ala b a s h s t a n din g a b o v e t h e g r o u n d wit h o u t anything holding it. 
It was just rotating in the air.
 I guess that was the genesis of the today Camera Drone that operates above the ground. 
God, we thank you for this opportunity of Cultural and Traditional exposition of our ordained Language; Nupe. 
 

