ENGLISH TRANSLATION
Adi had gone to fetch firewood from a nearby bush; on her way back, she all of a sudden felt she could not left her legs properly. She started thinking, ‘has the time come,’ it seems her heavy and protracted stomach is ready to bury the umbilical cord. She suddenly stood still with the firewood well arranged on a kóngó resting comfortably on her head with the help of èka. Her face wet with the sweat running down from her head, her local blouse was damped from the back and armpit as if she sprinkles water on it. The inner pains took-over as if she should free herself from one of the burden by doing away with the firewood. She then summed up courage and managed to walk home amidst pains. As she got home, she dropped the load carelessly and head straight to her room gently. Her partner and co-wife, whose hut is facing the entrance to the compound through katamba, noticed Adi’s going into her room restlessly without the usual greetings announcing her presence. She followed immediately.
When Kakayé got inside, she asked Adi, “sorry! Is it time?”
“Yessss oooh! Adi answered painfully.
“Sorry keep your legs calmly” as Kakayé helped her spread a stalk mat on the floor. She met her on the bare floor though it was tiled with broken terracotta. She moved to the mat and partly spread her legs.
“Give me some time,” as Kakayé moved out of the hut.
“Go and get me some swaka and dark soap in my hut quickly,” Kakayé spoke loudly to Mámù who look slightly worried herself as she gazed at her mother’s cloudy face stupidly. Mámù hurriedly went and brought the items. She then sent Mámù to go and fetch Nnadzwa, the local nurse that she should hastily come, her attention is needed, and that Adi is in labour. Before she should end her last statement, Mámù had fled. The mother just shook her head and went back to meet Adi as they wait anxiously for the midwife's arrival.
As Nnadzwa stepped into the hut,
“The head is coming out” Kakayé alarmed turning to Nnadzwa.
“Breathe in some air, then push with great energy,” Nnadzwa instructed Adi as she tap on her.
“Nnhhhh! Mother-ooooo!” Adi helplessly answered with a good push as Kakayé held her tight. Nnadzwa then asked for swaka and soap and then used it and gave another instruction as the baby almost out. Adi gave the final push; suddenly the baby arrives. Kakayé received it from Nnadzwa full of excitement. She then gave a loud and inviting yell.
“Ayyye ooooooooooooo yiiiiii
“A ye oooyiiii
“A ye ooo yiiii
“Ayy ye ooooooo yiiii……”
As she finished yelling, women from all angles trooped into the compound.
“Ooh congratulations! Congratulations!” they said as they got to Adi’s hut.
“Is it Adi that gave birth?” they enquired.
Kakayé replied, “She just delivered the baby.”
“Well - done! And congratulations, God’s time has come,” they said.
“What did God reward us with?” they asked again.
“It’s a baby boy,” Kakayé answered.
“Okay, congratulations! Congratulations!” they said as one of them held her nose immediately with one hand and use the other hand to cover her left ear and gave the loudest congratulatory yell,
“Ay ye ooooooooooo yiiiii
“A ye oooo yiiii
“A ye oooo yiiii
“Ay ye eeeeeeeee yiiiii……”
As she pauses, Kakayé gave another one too.
This is Adi third delivery that could be the reason why she did not have much trouble in her labour as she had with her first, and second child.
The men of the compound had gone to the farm. The sun is just at the centre. Kakayé is thinking of who to send to the farm to deliver the message on the new development. Then Woye hurriedly entered saying,
“Mother! Mother!! Ya-Ndagi is here.”
“Thank God! Kakayé praised and felt relieved.
“Call him for me quickly,” she instructed.
Ndagi returned home to pick another ridger from the farm tools’ store as the one Ndakpayi uses broke while ridging in the farm. When he entered the compound he knew something exciting had happened. And as he approaches Adi’s hut crowded with women exchanging pleasantries. He struggles to gather his thoughts in an attempt to decode what had happened, then Woye came out of her mother’s hut and move towards him fast and said,
“Brother, Nna-Adi just gave birth to a baby boy.”
“And mum said I should call you quickly.”
“Okay, congrats!” Ndagi said.
“Congratulations! Congratulations! Ya-Ndagi, may Allah let his soul live to inherit.” Women greeted as he walked pass them to meet her.
Ndagi replied, “congratulations to you all, congratulations to us altogether.”
He turned to Woye and asked,
“Where is mother?”
“She is in her hut,” Woye answered pointing toward the direction of the hut. Ndagi then walked towards it quickly to meet her.
Kakayé is the senior wife of Ndace, the eldest son of Alhaji Babatako who gave birth to Ndakpayi, Nma, Ndagi, Mámù, and Másin. Adi is the new wife of Ndace. She gave birth to Woye and Salla, and then followed by the new baby. It took Adi four good years before God wiped-off her tears. The arrival of the new baby is a source of relieve to Adi and happiness to the whole family.
Ndace is the eldest son of the village head, Alhaji Babatako. Alhaji had two wives: Layi and Nnakatsan. Layi is the senior wife with only one child, Ndace. While Nnakatsan is the second wife and she died last year leaving behind Nnakuli and Sanda.
   Nnako-Layi has been in the farm since morning picking shea nuts. She does the picking and resting at intervals as she cannot endure as in the past. And the nuts she was able to gather could not fill the wide-bowl container she came with lots of thoughts in her mind.
“Oh, is it that shea nuts did not do well this year? Or I kasha-ò-wodi is not good at picking again.” (She could not come to terms with her age, so she sees her low output as her share laziness).
“It’s already noon and I have not fill this container,” she queried.
As these occupied her thoughts, she suddenly remained calmer as she heard the chanting of her name from afar. “Is it not me that that voice is calling?” She asked, as the voice become clearer as it advanced towards her.
“Eeeehhh! Eeeehhh!” she answers as she struggles to make her voice as audible as possible.
“Is it not Ndagi that is calling me?” she asked.
“How are you?” she greeted.
Ndagi approached with his horse almost to her position.
“My husband, my husband; are you the one?” She asked impatiently
“Yes! I’m the one,” Ndagi responded.
He immediately got down from the horse, and he heads towards where she stationed her things beside a shea tree where she stood with the horse-whip in his hand.
“Is everything well at all?”
“Were you coming from home?” Nnako-Layi asked fervently
“Yes! I’m here with good news, but I will not reveal it to you until we exchange hands,” Ndagi challenged.
“Again! What happened? Is your marriage date fixed?” she guessed.
“No!” Ndagi answered with a shy smile.
“Nna-Adi has just given birth to a baby now,” he added.
“Thank you God! Thank you God! How are the baby and the mother doing?” she asked with some dance steps.
“They are doing just fine, in fact you need to see the new baby, he is very big,” he answered with emphasis.
“Good girl, ah, well done woman,” she says cheerfully.
She quickly put together her things as the joy in her has brightens her sight for hearing this wonderful message from Ndagi. She lifted it gradually onto to her head, and heads straight home. Ndagi then mounted his horse and move towards the family farm miles away to meet the guys.
Alhaji Babatako’s compound is filled with women each coming in to offer their congratulatory greetings for safe delivery. They will enter and greet the mother and the baby. While Nnadzwa is exclusively in charge of the baby for the first seven days after which she packs her belongings. In the event that there are two or more births at the same period, or in between, she shares the seating period among her patients alternating among the families with her strict instructions. This particular family is more comfortable with her services. There are three midwives in the moderate sized community with over three thousand five hundred people in all. All these years she has been in charge of the midwife of the women in the compound. Luckily also for the compound, she just finished with another family yesterday and she has none except this for now.
Nnadzwa is seated with the baby by her side. She did all the washing and applied all the medicine of roots and herbs on the new born. At this moment, some group of women enters the hut and she quickly grabbed the baby tight to herself. Then they greeted both Adi and Nnadzwa, Adi nicely replied with cheers, while Nnadzwa refused to respond pleasantly. Adi immediately suspected something is wrong. When they offered to collect the baby, Nnadzwa cunningly said,
“He is sleeping uunnhhh.”
“Is this one not for us to carry and bless?” One of them asked.
“How can one deny another a baby, as you know our people do say, ‘the hands and prayers of people are source of strength and protection to the baby and the family,’ but for now he is sleeping,” Nnadzwa calmly said.
“Okay ohh! We just came to greet, the mother and her baby, but it seems someone is not happy with our presence, so we are on our way,” another one said as they rose on their feet to go.
“Thank you very much for your rewarding visit,” Adi thanked.
They left. Adi hurriedly went back to meet Nnadzwa to inquire about what had just happened. Nnadzwa was reluctant in telling her because she wasn’t sure if Adi could hold the information to herself, because it is a taboo to spread it. Adi persuaded that she should trust her in as much as the information is about her baby and so as to be extra careful when Nnadzwa is not around.
“There are treacherous people everywhere, those women are dangerous. They were here to inflect something on your child because he is different,” Nnadzwa clarified.
“What do you mean he is different?” Adi asked impatiently.
“It is rare occurrence in our society these days to get such kind of children who the witches and wizards considered dangerous to their existence,” Nnadzwa added.
“Dangerous to witches and wizards, what did he do? How do you mean?” Adi says nervously.
“Frankly your baby’s future is shrouded in mystery, very unpredictable. That is what I meant by he is different,” Nnadzwa emphasized.
“But, how do you know all these unimaginable things,
“Are you a witch too?
“But forgive me if my questions upset you madam,” Adi asked fearfully.
Nnadzwa smiled, and tapped her on the shoulder assuring her that she should not worry about what she heard about her baby, that she still has a lot to learn on this. She added that even if she is not one of them, no witch or wizard agrees that she or he is one in whatever circumstance except if pushed to the wall. The secrecy oath is part of their lives.
It is widely believed in the communities that witches and soothsayers can foresee the future of any new baby. Some new born babies have a promising future while others bad. There is other category of new born that has moderate existence throughout their lives. In few occasions some new babies are born without clear future.These are the ones that threaten the people of the underworld.
   Kpatafu village is known for its peaceful co-existence with its neighbours until recently. Mango trees are what one sees as it approaches the village through the only road that connected it with other settlements before and after it. 

